Sunny Savita: Hey, hello everyone, I'm audible. Can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, good evening to all of you. Let's start, with the class.
Sunny Savita: So, just give me a moment, I'm going to share my screen.
Sunny Savita: I hope, guys, my screen is visible. Can you hear me now? Am I audible?
Sunny Savita: My voice is low, or is it fine?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so let's start with the class. I hope I am visible also. Can you please confirm in the chat if you can see me?
Sunny Savita: And if you can hear me, then…
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. So let's, begin, let's start with the class.
Sunny Savita: So, let's begin, guys. Let's start with the class.
Sunny Savita: So, today, we are going to start with a transformer. In the previous class, guys, we already completed our embedding. So, have you gone through with my previous class? Yes or no? Have you seen my previous class?
Sunny Savita: Okay. So guys, if you have joined the first time, if this is your first class, then please check out, with all the recordings. It is already available over the dashboard, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, once you will open your dashboard, under the dashboard, you will get your… all the recordings and all everything. See, this is the recording.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and guys, don't worry, I will upload all the resources and all everything. If any of them is missing, okay, everything would be available after today's session. And even you can remind me inside the community chat. Okay, so if any sort of resources are missing.
Sunny Savita: Then you can remind me inside the community, inside the community chat, okay? So, previous class recording is also there, here you can see. So, once you will run it, guys.
Sunny Savita: Once you will play it, guys, it will be, it will be playing, I think, so there is no such issues, because I'm able to play this recording inside my system, okay?
Sunny Savita: If it is not working for USP, just log out, and then, again, log in, and then again check, okay? Or else try to open it inside the incognito mode, it will be working.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's begin with today's session. So, guys, inside the previous class, we have completed our embedding part.
Sunny Savita: So, if you have attended my previous session, so I complete it, let me write all those topics over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, we have completed the SOTA embedding.
Sunny Savita: And, have you, have you gone through with those practical and all everything?
Sunny Savita: I've shown you the… I have shown you the sort of embedding models.
Sunny Savita: So this model, basically, it is based on the transformer, right? As I told you, this particular model is based on the transformer, and it is capable to, encode any sort of a data.
Sunny Savita: So whatever type of data we are giving, whether it's a text, Okay, images…
Sunny Savita: Right? Even we can convert audio and video also.
Sunny Savita: So, audio and video, basically, it is out of scope as of now. We are not going to perform any such use cases.
Sunny Savita: Where I can show you this audio and video, but if you are willing, you can do it from your end, okay? So, yesterday I shown you, how we can convert any text data, any sort of a paragraph, anything, guys, into the, numerical value. Even I shown you with respect to the images also, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I hope this thing is completed now. After that, guys, I have completed about the similarity search also.
Sunny Savita: So this topic was also clear, similarity search.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So I've shown you 3 methods, about this similarity search. First was a dot product.
Sunny Savita: Second method was the cosine similarity.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Cosine, similarity.
Sunny Savita: And the third method was the Euclidean distance.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Euclane distance.
Sunny Savita: So, you clean, distance.
Sunny Savita: So I discuss all this thing inside the previous class.
Sunny Savita: If you don't know where about it, guys, you can go and check out the previous class, you will find out all the practical and all. So, this is also called the altitude distance. Now, one more topic was there, one more topic was, remaining. So, that was the, how, basically, we can find out the best possible embedding model, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, how we can, basically, get a best and possible embedding model. So, I will show you this thing, guys, how to find out a best and possible embedding model, and this is also called the evaluation of the embedding model.
Sunny Savita: Evaluation of the… embedding model.
Sunny Savita: So, this thing, again, I will discuss inside the rack chapter.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: As of now, I'm not going to show you this part.
Sunny Savita: So, let's keep it for the rag, okay? So, again, guys, I will come to these particular topics.
Sunny Savita: This similarity search and all, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this similarity search and evaluation of the embedding model. So, again, we'll, look into it inside our RAG chapter.
Sunny Savita: Got it? Making sense to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So I will show you the example, and even, I will show you some, mathematical explanation also behind this dot product, cosine similarity, and the Euclidean distance, okay? And, you need to select which one, which is the best one.
Sunny Savita: Which is the best one. Again, we'll look into the rack chapter. Okay, so after fine-tuning, guys.
Sunny Savita: We'll complete the… we'll come to the RAG, and inside the RAG chapter, again, we'll discuss about it.
Sunny Savita: But yesterday, I just shown you the embedding, how to convert the data using this transformer-based model, using the SOTA model, SOTA LLM… sorry, sorry, SOTA… SOTA means what? State-of-art model, okay? So, using this model, how we can convert the data into the numbers.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, in today's class, I will focus over the transformer, okay? So, we are going to be start the next topic.
Sunny Savita: So, the next topic is going to be what? Transformer. So, again, next 3 to 4 class, guys, we'll spend over the transformer. It is a huge topic.
Sunny Savita: Right? It is a huge topic, guys. Based Transformer.
Sunny Savita: There are so many things to understand about, to understand about a transformer architecture. So, again, how many classes, guys? Again, 3 to 4 classes I will take.
Sunny Savita: 3 to 4 classes, basically, I did take for the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Is it making sense to all of you? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Great. So, let's begin, let's start, let's start with the transformer. Someone is saying you will explain how transformer works. So, Sovik, am I speaking in Chinese so far?
Sunny Savita: So, I'm saying now, I will discuss the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, great, fine. So, let's do one thing. Let's, start with the transformer.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, the transformer, basically, it was the, it was the NLP-based model, okay? So, no, I have seen your message inside the community chat also, okay? So, don't say that. I've seen your message later. Yesterday, also, I told you that I will teach you Transformer.
Sunny Savita: then I don't know why you were pinging in the committee chat.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. So, let's do one thing, guys, let's start. I think someone messaged in the committee chat, maybe I don't know who, but I've seen yours also.
Sunny Savita: Sir, please check in that… okay, let me check in front of you only. I think someone was saying there, let me confirm.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this one, so there…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this one. Oh, you were saying, I think, in today's session on the intuition of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Mahesh is saying this is a wastage of time. Oh, great, Mahesh, thank you. Then I think you should watch the recording, in that case. Because live classes are the dynamic one, right? We should, like, crack some joke and all, right? And then come to the concept again, then the, basically,
Sunny Savita: practical and all, right? I'm not a robot, okay?
Sunny Savita: So I can just stick with the agenda only, right? I'm also human, right? I can talk in an interactive way, I can, like, ask about something and all. Okay, so you should not say like this, that you should stick with the agenda only. I think in that case, you should watch a recording.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Great, guys. So, let's, begin. So, guys, here, see, before starting with the transformer, we're talking about the
Sunny Savita: transformer.
Sunny Savita: So, let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if we're talking about this transformer, so it was a concept of the natural language processing, right? So, how the evaluation happened? Let me, explain you that flowchart first, okay? So, how this transformer came into the existence.
Sunny Savita: Guys, you remember I explained you one flowchart regarding the AI, AI map and all. So, if we're talking about the AI, so under the AI, basically, the deep learning comes, okay? So, we're talking about the deep learning. Inside the deep learning, we have one, one more branch that is called the recurrent neural network.
Sunny Savita: You know about the recurrent neural network, this one. So this recurrent neural network, basically, it was being used to process the natural language data.
Sunny Savita: Now, what was this natural language data? So, it was the natural language, the text data, okay? This text data. Or we can say it is a sequence data. It was the…
Sunny Savita: Sequence data.
Sunny Savita: It was the sequence data, okay? Yes, I'll give you the real scenario also, okay? Nandikisho. So, guys, if we're talking about the RNN. So, RNN basically, it was invented, right, for the natural language data, for the text data, for the sequential data.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, after the LLM, there was one more architecture which came into the existence that is called the LSTM.
Sunny Savita: Have you heard about the LSTM, guys?
Sunny Savita: So, again, the LSTM was nothing, it was just an enhancement on top of the RNN.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Then, along with the LSTM, there was one more architecture which was, being used very actively, that was a GRU. But I think this, transfer, this LSTM only, it was a popular architecture.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So, till, 2014-15, we were… we were all using this, LSTM. Now, what was the full form of the LSTM? The full form of the LSTM was the long.
Sunny Savita: short term.
Sunny Savita: memory.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: long, short-term memory. So, this was the full form of the LSTM. Now, after the LSTM, guys, one more model was introduced. The model, basically, it was called…
Sunny Savita: Encoder, decoder model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: encoder.
Sunny Savita: And… decoder model.
Sunny Savita: So, in 2014, I think in 2014-15 only, so this particular model was invented, okay? You can check out the exact, you can check out the exact year, in which year. I think in 2014-15 only, this model was invented.
Sunny Savita: Now, there was one more enhancement, there was one more enhancement inside this particular model. So, that enhancement, basically, if I'm talking about that enhancement, right? So, that enhancement basically is called the encoder-decoder with attention. So, let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: The next model, which was introduced, that is called the encoder, Encoder.
Sunny Savita: And… decoder.
Sunny Savita: with attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: With encoder, decoder with attention.
Sunny Savita: So, again, this, was also a very popular research in the field of LLM, okay? Sorry, in the field of natural language processing.
Sunny Savita: And I think in 2016 only, this particular model was invented. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Now, guys, we're talking about
Sunny Savita: encoder and decoder with attention, right? Now, right after this one, guys, one more model was invented, okay? So that particular model is called the ULM FIT.
Sunny Savita: Okay, ULM fit.
Sunny Savita: Universal Language Model. Universal Language Model. Okay, so this was the model name. So I think this was also invented in 2016-17.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, first, guys, the RNN was there, the LSTM was there, then encoder-decoder model was there, then encoder-decoder with attention was there, and then the ULM fit was there. Now, after this only, guys, after this ULM fit model only.
Sunny Savita: One, model was, one model was introduced, that model is called a transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Transformer.
Sunny Savita: And the research paper name, what was the research paper name?
Sunny Savita: The research paper name was the Attention All You Need. So, this particular transformer model was invented in 2018, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, whenever we learn about the natural language processing, guys, whenever we talk about the natural language processing, okay? So, we all discuss, we learn about all these models. So, this model, actually, it comes, this, all the models, basically, it comes under the natural language processing.
Sunny Savita: That is called NLP.
Sunny Savita: Okay? NLP, or you can say Advanced NLP.
Sunny Savita: Advance.
Sunny Savita: NLP.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Advanced NLP. But guys, inside the interview, people are not going to ask you about all this thing. Okay, people are not going to be asking you about all this thing. As a generative AI engineer, right, if you're giving an interview for the generative AI engineer.
Sunny Savita: then they will only focus over the transformer architecture only, okay? If they are going to be asked any sort of a question on the, over the, like, if they are going to be asked you any, architecture level question, any mathematical level question, then they will just focus over the transformer. They will not ask you any sort of a other model, right? But guys, I'm just telling you the timeline so that you can understand everything in a detail.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: What is a GRU? GRU is called the Gated Recurrent Unit. So, this was the full form of the GRU. Let me write over here. The full form of the GRU was the gated.
Sunny Savita: Recurrent.
Sunny Savita: Recurrent unit, right? Gated recurrent unit. Now, guys, all this model, basically, right? All this model, it was, invented just to process the natural language data.
Sunny Savita: Just to process the natural language data, just to process the text data, okay? And all this model invented to process as much as bigger context length.
Sunny Savita: Right? As much as bigger context length. So, we're talking about this encoder and decoder model till here, guys, right? So, encoder and decoder model, it was a concept, actually.
Sunny Savita: Right? It was a concept, actually. So inside this encoder and decoder, so inside the encoder and decoder, they were using the LSTM only.
Sunny Savita: Right? So again, this encoder and decoder, it was a concept only, right? Means they were using the… they were using the LSTM architecture inside the encoder, as well as inside the decoder also, right? So the main architecture was what? Main architecture was the RNN, this RNN.
Sunny Savita: And the other architecture was what? Other architecture was the LSTM, okay? This LSTM, basically, it was a very popular architecture, right? So inside the encoder-decoder concept, inside this encoder-decoder phenomena, guys, people were using this LSTM model, right? LSTM model.
Sunny Savita: Now, we were having some drawback of the LSTM model.
Sunny Savita: We're talking about the LSTM model, so we were having some drawback of the LSTM model, and because of that only, this LSTM model was not up to the mark, right? And then, guys, this transformer came into the picture, right? And the research paper name, basically, which was introduced, the research paper called the Attention All You Need.
Sunny Savita: Attention.
Sunny Savita: all you need, right? Now, if we're talking about this ULM Fit research paper, so inside the ULM Fit research paper also, guys, they are talking about the… they were talking about the LSTM model only. So, they have pre-trained the LSTM model on some used data set, and then later on, they fine-tuned the model.
Sunny Savita: The letter on, they fine-tuned that particular model, okay? Later on, they were fine-tuning that particular model on some specific task. So inside the ULM FIT research paper, they have given the ID of the pre-training, and then supervised fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: But, with the LSTM model, actually, we were having some drawback, and because of that, guys, we were not able to scale this LSTM model for the bigger data.
Sunny Savita: For the bigger data.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we were having some drawback inside the LSTM model, and because of that, guys, we were not able to scale this LSTM model for the bigger data, right?
Sunny Savita: So, we have to understand… so, from here, guys, we have to understand the differences between the LSTM model and the transformer model, right? So, what was the differences, what are the differences between this LSTM model and the transformer model, and why this transformer model came into the existence?
Sunny Savita: Okay? Why this transformer model came into the existence. Now, we're talking about, guys, this transformer. So, whatever LLM have been created, right? Whatever LLM have been created so far. Now, this, what is the full form of the LLM, guys? Tell me. The full form of the LLM is the large.
Sunny Savita: language.
Sunny Savita: Okay, large language model.
Sunny Savita: So, the full form of the LLM is what? Large Language Model. Now, over here, guys, inside this large language model, what this large is representing.
Sunny Savita: This large, actually, it is representing a data.
Sunny Savita: This large, actually, it is representing a data. Okay, so we're talking about this LSTM model, guys. So, with the LSTM model, we were having the issue, means we were not able to train this LSTM model over the large data.
Sunny Savita: there was some drawback of this LSTA model, and because of that, we were not able to train this LSTA model over the large data, okay? Now, from where this language model concept came… now, yesterday only I told you what is the meaning of the language modeling.
Sunny Savita: Can anyone tell me what is the meaning of the language modeling? This one? The language modeling is nothing. If we're talking about the language modeling.
Sunny Savita: So the concept… what is a language modeling, guys? Language modeling is nothing.
Sunny Savita: the meaning of the language modeling to predict the next token. Okay, next token prediction.
Sunny Savita: So, based on the… based on the… based on the previous, based on what? Based on the previous, basically, text, we are going to be protect the next token. So, let's say if I'm going to be right over here, Sunny is AI Tutor.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I return over here, Sunny is an AI tutor. So based on this particular sentence, based on this previous context, I'm going to be predicting the next word, this one.
Sunny Savita: I'm going to be predict the next word, okay? So, based on this particular sentence, based on the previous sentence, I'm going to be predict what, I'm going to be predicting the next word. So, this is called the language modeling. Now, this language modeling concept, actually, this language modeling concept, it was introduced inside this ULM Fit research paper.
Sunny Savita: inside this ULM-fit research paper. But again, inside this ULM FIT research paper, this language modeling concept was introduced using this LSTM model.
Sunny Savita: this LSTM model, which was not a scalable one.
Sunny Savita: Which was not a scalable one. Then what happened, guys, in 2017-18, this research came out, the transformer research was there, the transformer research came out, it was from the Google end. So inside this transformer, basically, they were using the self-attention concept.
Sunny Savita: They were using the self-attention concept, and guys, instead of passing data in sequence, they were passing data in parallel.
Sunny Savita: parallel.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and because of that, guys, we were able to train this transformer model from over the large data set.
Sunny Savita: Right? Over the large data set. So, language modeling means what? Language modeling means next token prediction. Large means what? We are going to be… perform this particular training over very huge data set, over the internet data set, right? Over very huge dataset. And that's why, guys, it becomes large length.
Sunny Savita: That's why, guys, it becomes large language model. Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, so, what… so here I cap the differences between the LSTM and the RNN, okay, and the transformer. I'll discuss in some time, right? So, guys, if I can summarize all this thing, and if I can show you all the research paper with that, I think your understanding will be a bit more concrete. So, we're talking about… we're talking about the NLP, guys, so inside the NLP,
Sunny Savita: This, LSTM model was the very popular model.
Sunny Savita: So, using this LSTM model, several architecture was invented. The architecture name was the encoder-decoder, then encoder-decoder, with attention architecture.
Sunny Savita: Now, on top of this particular architecture, encoder-decoder Attention, there is one more research which came out that is called the ULM Fit, okay? ULM FIT. What was the full form of the ULM Fit? Universal Language Model with Fine Tuning.
Sunny Savita: But I will show you the research paper of this, ULM fit, okay? So, guys, inside this ULM fit, basically, what they were doing, they were pre-trained the model, they were pre-trained the model, okay? And then, guys, they were fine-tuning the model.
Sunny Savita: But again, they were using the LSTM architecture only over there. And because of that, this, this was not very scalable idea. Because LSTM, basically, it is processing a data in a sequence, okay? So we cannot, train this LSTM on a very huge amount of data set.
Sunny Savita: We cannot, train this LSTM on very huge amount of data set. It was not possible. Then what happened? In 2017 only, this transformer architecture was… this transformer architecture came into the picture. So, instead of using this LSTM, so they removed the LSTM,
Sunny Savita: Okay? So they have used the same concept, which was introduced inside the ULM Fit research paper, okay? They have picked the transformer architecture, they took a very large data set.
Sunny Savita: Okay, they took a very large data set, and on top of it only, they performed the language modeling. They have performed the language modeling, okay? And from here only, the concept of the large language model came into the existence. So the early stage large language model, I can write over here.
Sunny Savita: The early, early stage, large language model.
Sunny Savita: was the… BERT model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, different, different variant of the word, or GPT model, GPT-1, 2, 3, right? So this was the early-stage large language model, which was created based on the concept of this transformer only.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, yes or no? Guys, tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes, is it getting clear? Now, let's do one thing. Let's try to check out. Let's try to check out with a different, different research paper. So, here, guys, I'm just going to be open the Google in front of you, and I'm searching a different, different research paper. Okay, so first, guys, let's, check out the research paper, encoder.
Sunny Savita: and decoder.
Sunny Savita: 2014. So, in 2014, guys, this research was published.
Sunny Savita: So, let me show you that particular paper. If it is there, then. Learning phrases using RNN encoder decoder for the static machine learning. Let me check if this is a research paper, yes. So, guys, this is the research paper, and the key figure are… let me check if it is a research paper.
Sunny Savita: So, this is not R1.
Sunny Savita: Because so many, research paper, actually, you will find out. Okay, so, Ilya Sutkevar was the key figure. Let me check, guys, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, Ilya Saskivar. Yeah, this was a person, actually, he's a very famous guy in the field of this, machine learning and the deep learning.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys. Let me…
Sunny Savita: Right over here. This, this was a guy, guys, okay? So, he only invented, he only invented… you know this person. You know this person, guys. Have you, have you, like, seen this person ever? This one? So, he was, behind this particular research paper. So, let me search with this… let me search again with his name only.
Sunny Savita: So, Ilya skewer, encoder, and decoder.
Sunny Savita: So, if I'm going to be searched with his name, maybe I will get that. Yes, this is a research paper, guys. Sequence-to-sequence learning. So, this is the actual research paper, which was published by the Google, okay, in 2014. So, there they were using the LSTM architecture only.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now let me search sequence-to-sequence learning, or I can search again, encoder, encoder and decoder, with attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so encoder and decoder with attention. Maybe I will get, that research paper. So, I think so this should be a research paper. I'm just checking, guys.
Sunny Savita: Understanding how encoder and decoder architecture attend.
Sunny Savita: Again, this was, also very important in the search paper, encoder-decoder with Attention. Again, let me check what is a correct name.
Sunny Savita: What is a correct name?
Sunny Savita: No, attention, all you need is not a correct… that is a, like, different research paper. It is based on the transformer. Encoder-decoder with attention, it is a different research paper, okay? So… let me do one thing, guys, let me again search with this particular name, sequence to sequence with attention.
Sunny Savita: with attention.
Sunny Savita: research paper. Okay, I'm going to research it, guys, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Maybe this could be a research paper.
Sunny Savita: Just… yeah, I will provide you all the research paper and all, okay? Don't worry. So, this should be the research… this could be the research paper, guys.
Sunny Savita: Mmm…
Sunny Savita: Okay, encoding, decoding. Actually, there they were using the, there, what they were doing, they were using the LSTM model only, okay?
Sunny Savita: LSTM model only.
Sunny Savita: Sequence-to-sequence neural network… okay, this is the same one. Fine, guys. So, I'll show you that research paper, sequence-to-sequence learning with attention, okay? Encoder and decoder with attention. Now, let me search the ULM fit research paper, okay? So, ULM fit…
Sunny Savita: research paper. This is the very important research paper in the field of the machine learning, okay, in the field of natural language processing.
Sunny Savita: So, ULM fit paper.
Sunny Savita: And, see, this is the name, the actual name of this particular research paper. Guys, here you can see. It is… it was introduced in 2018. So, universal language model fine-tuning for the text classification. Now, again, inside this particular research paper also, no, they were using the LSTM model only.
Sunny Savita: Okay, they were using the LSTM model only. See, I can show you over here. See, here only, they have shown you the concept of the LLM pre-training, language model pre-training. They're an LM language model fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: And then only it was performing the task. So, guys, this is one and only… this is the research paper, which was… which, again, was the breakthrough in the field of this, natural language processing. And because of that, guys, we got the large language model.
Sunny Savita: Right? This one. So, you can go through with this research paper, it is an important one. Now, let me show you the attention all you need. So, attention…
Sunny Savita: Is all you need paper.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm, searching… this is the real transformer paper, guys, this one. So, I'm just going to be open it, see? This is the real transformer paper.
Sunny Savita: And, here only you will find out this transformer architecture. See, this is a real transformer research paper, this one.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. So, likewise, guys, the research happened in the field of this natural language processing.
Sunny Savita: And, here, guys, you will find out the research paper regarding… each research paper regarding each and every research, okay? Now, I'm providing you all these links so that you can go through with it. I'm mentioning inside the notion itself, right? So, what…
Sunny Savita: what I'm doing, guys, just give me a moment, I can mention all these links inside the Notion. So, class 08 and class 09, here I'm going to be mentioned 18 April and the 19 April, okay?
Sunny Savita: And I'm providing you all the links. So, the first one is going to be sequence-to-sequence learning, that is, encoder, and
Sunny Savita: decoder.
Sunny Savita: paper. So I'll keep a link over here. You can go through with this particular research paper later on.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm going to, guys, so here, I'm going to be provide…
Sunny Savita: The next research paper also, that's going to be a… Universal language modeling.
Sunny Savita: So, here I'm going to write ULM fit.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so you can go through with the research… you can go through with this research paper if you… if you are willing to, like, read the research paper, okay? You can check out with this. Now, again, I'm going to be, keep the link of another research paper, so this is going to be a transformer one. So, here, I am going to be right…
Sunny Savita: France?
Sunny Savita: former.
Sunny Savita: Attention.
Sunny Savita: All?
Sunny Savita: U.
Sunny Savita: need, okay? So this is one more research paper, guys. Attention all your need. Now, someone is saying Bandhanu. Yes, I think that was a person who invented that research paper. Let me check with this particular name.
Sunny Savita: Attention paper.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, got it, guys. So this is the research paper of the encoder-decoder with attention. Can you see, guys, this one? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Neural machine translation by jointly learning and align with it to align and translate, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, inside this research paper only in 2016, this attention concept was introduced at the first time. So, see guys, here you can see, the attention concept have been introduced first time inside this particular research paper only, and this was not a self-attention, it was just an attention only.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and for the machine translation problem statement only, this research paper, for the machine translation problem statement only, this research paper was, published, okay? So here you can go through with this research paper also, so you will understand the initial phase of the attention, how the attention was invented.
Sunny Savita: But guys, we are not going to be talk about this attention, encoder-decoder, and all. We will only focus over the transformer, okay? So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be mentioning this paper also, encoder.
Sunny Savita: decoder.
Sunny Savita: Decoder with attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And Coda Decoder with attention. So, I am going to provide you this link as well, and I'm sharing the Notion link with all of you, so that you can go through with,
Sunny Savita: you can go through with this, all the research paper. Now, how to read the research paper and all, guys? So, it's very easy. Just provide this research paper to the ChatGPT, and ask to ChatGPT to summarize this in a simplest language.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So nowadays, we have a chat GPT, the advantage of the, like, AI, right? ChatGPT and all. So we can directly provide this research paper to the claw, to the chat GPT and all, and we can ask them to, basically.
Sunny Savita: We can ask them to, like, create a summarized version, okay? So I can show you, if you want, I can summarize in front of you only.
Sunny Savita: So, let's say, if you want to read this particular research paper, right? So, I'm just showing you how to, do that. So, guys, let's suppose you wanted to read this particular research paper. So, what you will do, guys, you will download this research paper.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and then you will open the chat GPT. So, let me open the ChatGPT, the new chat.
Sunny Savita: And there, guys, what I'm doing, I'm just going to be provide this research paper. Can you see my chat GPT? Is it visible to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So here, guys, I'm just going to be provide this research paper to the chat GPT, okay? And I'm asking to the chat GPT, can you…
Sunny Savita: read.
Sunny Savita: this.
Sunny Savita: research.
Sunny Savita: paper, and can you… Explain me this research.
Sunny Savita: paper.
Sunny Savita: in a… simplest.
Sunny Savita: language.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: If I will provide this particular prompt and see.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Notebook LM is also very good, yes. So, it is saying, yes, bro, it is a very famous research paper, so it is reading the paper. Now, see, what was the problem? So, translate a sentence from one language to another language. As I told you, this basically concept was invented around the machine translation only.
Sunny Savita: So, what was the old method? The old method was the encoder and decoder. There, we were not able to capture the much context, okay? So, the big problem, basically, everything is forced into the one fixed vector size. So, this is the problem. The main idea is this one. This is the intuition, guys. Now, how did they work on it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, now core idea is this one, key equation is this one, okay, the visualization is this one. Everything, it has explained to you in a very easiest way. Making sense to all of you? Yes or no? So guys, you can go… you can take out… you can take this particular approach, you can provide the research paper to the Claude or to the chat GPT, and you can summarize this particular paper.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: all the Notion notes are available inside the GitHub only. You can take it from there. So, how's this idea?
Sunny Savita: Is a good idea? Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: So, fine, guys, I hope, you liked this particular idea. Now, let's do one thing, guys. Let's, back to the topic again.
Sunny Savita: So, till here, everything is fine. You understood, basically, where this transformer existing.
Sunny Savita: where this transformer existing inside this entire flowchart. Did you understand that?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here you can see, so this transformer existing after the ULM fit, basically. So, you can summarize all the research paper and all, and you can understand. So, here, guys, first, let's understand the differences between the RNN, LSTM, and the transformer. And then, guys, I will come to the transformer architecture, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, here, we're talking about the RNN LSTM. So, inside the RNN LSTM, guys, we were processing the data in a sequence.
Sunny Savita: We were processing the data in a sequence. Now, we're talking about transformer, guys, so inside there, we were processing the data in parallel, right? And because of that, guys, we were able to process lots and lots of data.
Sunny Savita: lots of data we were able to pass where to the transformer. Okay. Now, guys, we're talking about the speed, guys, so the RNN LSTM speed was the slow.
Sunny Savita: But if we're talking about this, transformer, guys, so the speed is fast over here. So, what is the processing style, guys? The processing style is a parallel over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And because of that, we can pass the lots of data.
Sunny Savita: we can pass the lots of data. And guys, because of that, guys, the speed is also very, very fast, because we are passing the data in parallel. Now, long-term dependency, if we are passing the long sentences, if we are passing the long sentences.
Sunny Savita: inside the LSTM, or RNN and LSTM, right? So they were not able to capture the context.
Sunny Savita: They were not able to capture the context, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay? But guys, if we are talking about this transformer, so it is able to sustain a very long sentences. Now, guys, just tell me, we're talking about the GPT, the latest GPT model, GPT-4, GPT 4.5, 5.1, so what's the context length of it?
Sunny Savita: What's the context length of it? The context length of it is around 128K tokens. Okay, and even up to 1 million of token. So we're talking about 128K token up to 1 million of token, so it can read even the entire book.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about the latest LLM,
Sunny Savita: Right? Latest LLM, the Jimny and the GPT, basically, so it can read the entire book in a single shot.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, architecture-wise, so the RNN and LSTM, basically, it was using the gates, the input gate, forget gate, okay? Now, we're talking about the transformer, so transformer is using the attention, attention-based mechanism, which is called the self-attention. Okay, so attention is different, guys, different, guys, attention.
Sunny Savita: And self-attention is different.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Self-attention is different.
Sunny Savita: Now, transformer, actually, it is using this, self-attention concept.
Sunny Savita: Transformer is using this self-attention concept.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the meaning of the self-attention? We'll come to that part, okay? We'll come to the self-attention, okay? I'll show you with the example.
Sunny Savita: Right? I will show you with the example. Please respond. See, it is very difficult to take a doubt while teaching, so you can ask any sort of a doubt inside the doubt session, guys, okay? Just listen to the session, and even Yash is there, you can ask to, in a chat. If it is not being replied, don't worry, you can ask in a doubt session, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, the attention is there, self-attention is there, so this transformer, actually, it is based on this self-attention, this particular mechanism. Now, how that LSTM and the, how the LSTM architecture look like? Let me show you that also.
Sunny Savita: And, then, guys, I'll come to this transformer. So, we're talking about the LSTM, guys. Just a second, I kept the LSTM architecture somewhere…
Sunny Savita: I can show you that, yeah, see, this is the LSTM architecture. I hope you have seen.
Sunny Savita: inside the, like, natural language processing, you have gone through with this particular architecture. I'm just copy and pasting the architecture so that you can check it.
Sunny Savita: See, this is the, LSTM architecture, guys.
Sunny Savita: Is it visible to all of you, this one?
Sunny Savita: So, this is the LSTM architecture. Now, we're talking about the… we're talking about the transformer architecture, so how does it look like?
Sunny Savita: So how does it look like? The transformer architecture? I think I've shown you in the previous class. Let me show you again. Just a second.
Sunny Savita: I can show you, I can just import that image, I kept it in my system only. See, this is the transformer architecture.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, if someone's going to be asked you the LSTM, or… I mean, if someone is going to be asked you the differences between the LSTM and the transformer, so you can clearly say the differences between them.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So is the entire thing is getting clear, if someone is going to be asking you the differences between the RNN and LSTM, you can talk about those differences, okay? In interview, maybe they might ask you, but the chances is very low.
Sunny Savita: In… in one of the interviews, basically, guys, when I given in 2024, they have asked me these differences. So that's why I capped these differences over here. But if someone is going to be asked you, then please explain this 3-4 differences. I think this is more than enough.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Any assignment today? We'll discuss at the end of the session, right?
Sunny Savita: We'll discuss at the end of the session. So, yeah, differences here, so we understand this architecture also? No, you don't need to go through in deep… in depth, basically.
Sunny Savita: So, as a modern route, we just have to focus over the transformer and the LLM and the other, concept, like RAG agents and all, okay?
Sunny Savita: You can do the self-learning. I think Krista has already given you one video, NLP one-shot video. From there, guys, you can learn about all this thing. I think he has covered over there. So, this thing is already there inside the prerequisite video.
Sunny Savita: So if you will go and check out the prerequisite video, inside the prerequisite video, guys, you will get this entire thing, okay? So I'm just putting, like, some light on it so that you can go through with it. If someone is asking in an interview, at least, you can discuss a couple of points related to those concepts.
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, guys, I hope all this thing is clear. Now, let me summarize that. So, what I have shown you guys, the first thing, basically, I told you about the, the complete, basically, flowchart, okay? From where? From RNN to transformer.
Sunny Savita: RNN2.
Sunny Savita: Transformer.
Sunny Savita: I have shared the research paper also. Now, the second, basically, what I've done, I shared the research paper.
Sunny Savita: And I've shown you how, basically, you can go through with all those research papers.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: how, basically, you can go through with all those research papers. Now, the third thing, basically, we understood the differences between the LSTM versus transformer.
Sunny Savita: Transformer.
Sunny Savita: And guys, if you wanted to understand this RNN, this LSTM, all this thing, guys.
Sunny Savita: then you can check out with a prerequisite video. I think we have given you one short prerequisite video about the NLP, guys. So this, all the concept comes under the NLP. You can learn all this concept over there itself.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. So, let's start with the transformer now.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about a transformer, guys. So, transformer basically depends on, so inside the transformer, guys, we have two things, two parts of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: The first is called the, the first is called, guys, the first is called the encoder, and the second is called the decoder, guys, okay? So, let me, discuss about all those things now, right? So, let's, start with the…
Sunny Savita: transformer. So, here, guys, just a second, let me paste the architecture. I think that architecture was not visible. Someone was saying it is a blur one, so let me, keep the correct… let me keep one, like, correct architecture, okay? Just give me a moment, guys. So, transformer…
Sunny Savita: architecture. So it looks blurred now. Yeah, I'm keeping the good one, okay? Just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, here, here, here, I think this is a good one.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys, just give me a moment. Tell me, guys, is it fine to all of you? Is it visible now? This one?
Sunny Savita: Is this perfect?
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, if we're talking about this transformer architecture, so it is a backbone of the current LLM, okay? Now, it is having two parts. The first part of this transformer architecture is called the encoder. So, this is the encoder, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: And the second part is called the decoder. So this is what, guys? This is the decoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is the decoder.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: This is called the decoder, and right… left-hand side was the… left-hand side one called the encoder, okay? So I can write over here, this is an encoder.
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys? This is the encoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: And this is what? This is a decoder.
Sunny Savita: decoder.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about the GPT model, if we're talking about the GPT model, actually. So, the GPT model, it is based on the decoder.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: This GPT model, actually, it is based on the decoder. Now, we're talking about the BERT model, guys. BERT model. So, this BERT model, actually, it was based on the encoder.
Sunny Savita: So, whenever we talk about the models, right, the different, different models, nowadays, whatever LLMs you are seeing.
Sunny Savita: Whatever LLMs you are seeing in the market, let me highlight those LLMs. The first LLM is the GPT one.
Sunny Savita: The second LLM, let's say Llama.
Sunny Savita: Okay, the third, basically, let's a mistrill.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: The fourth, Deep Seek.
Sunny Savita: DeepSeek.
Sunny Savita: Now, the different, different cloud model, or let's say if we're talking about the Quen, okay, Quen.
Sunny Savita: It is a very famous open source model. Now, the different, different cloud models, like Opus.
Sunny Savita: Right? Then, basically this one, Haiku.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Opus, Haiku, and Sonet is also there.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Sonnet.
Sunny Savita: And the next one, basically, this, Gemini, right? Gemini.
Sunny Savita: So this, all the famous model, all this LLM model, basically, it is dependent on the decoder part.
Sunny Savita: Decoder part of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: It is based on the decoder part of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? But guys, here, we'll focus to understand about the encoder and decoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Here, guys, what we will do, we'll focus on the encoder and decoder. We'll try to understand both encoder and the decoder. Means, we'll look into this transformer architecture in that way, like the… like that they have trained the modeler, the first one, the Google has published this research paper. Attention, all you need. Okay, in the same way, basically, we'll try to look into this particular architecture, okay? So I'm not going to be discriminate as of now into encoder and decoder.
Sunny Savita: So I will show you this encoder and decoder in the same way, like, they have done it inside the transformer architecture in, transformer research paper in 2018, okay? So, we'll learn both, we'll learn both encoder and decoder. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me. I can show you, I can show you the Llama architecture also. So, we're talking about the Llama architecture, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, if we're talking about the Llama architecture. Have you heard about the Llama?
Sunny Savita: Have you heard about the Llama, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, the Llama basically… see, if we're talking about the Llama, right? So, it is a very famous open-source model, okay, from the meta. So, see, this is the transformer, actually, and this is the Llama. I hope it is visible to all of you, this one.
Sunny Savita: Can you see, guys, this one?
Sunny Savita: This is the Lama architecture. Now, see, this Llama architecture, actually, this Llama architecture, it is base, or it is dependent on what? It means, this Llama architecture, basically, it was created out of this decoder architecture only, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Decoder architecture. So this Llama, basically, and LAMA, Mistral, GPT, whatever model you are seeing, right? So it is a, it is basically created on top of this decoder only, okay? But whenever we are trying to understand the transformer, the original transformer architecture, we'll have to understand the both part, encoder as well as the decoder.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: What are the encoder and what are the decoder exactly? This is the encoder. Encoder was encoding the text, and decoder basically… sorry, encoder was encoding the text, and decoder was decoding the text. So this, architecture, the transformer architecture which they have created, right? So the architecture, basically, they have created for the machine translation.
Sunny Savita: Initially, they have created this particular architecture for what? They have created for what? For the machine translation.
Sunny Savita: Okay? For what, guys? For the machine translation. So, inside the machine translation, this encoder, basically, this encoder was encoding the data
Sunny Savita: Encoding the data, okay, it was converting into the numbers, and the decoder, basically, what it was doing, decoder, basically, it was decoding the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It was decoding the data. Decoding the data in the other language. Let's say if I wanted to convert anything from Hindi to English, let's say here I'm writing.
Sunny Savita: I am Sunny, okay? So, how I will write it inside the Hindi? So, I will write Mehra Nam, sunny hain.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, for this particular problem statement only, for this particular problem statement only, they have created this particular architecture.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. Now, if we're talking about the transformer architecture, guys, if we're talking about the transformer architecture, right? So, we have to understand, so many different, different points related to that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We have to understand so many different, different points related to that. So, let me write all the points over here. Let me write all those points one by one, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, if we're talking about the encoder side, so we have to understand, this thing over the encoder side. Just give me a second, I capped a couple of points in my notepad. I can copy and paste over here, okay? Just a second. So, guys, if we're talking about the encoder side, so all these points basically comes
Sunny Savita: I'm just writing those points, guys. This is the point.
Sunny Savita: Okay? See, this is the point, guys. Just see over here, this one. So this, all the points, basically, comes over the decode… encoder side. Okay, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, we're talking about the end decoder side, okay? We're talking about the decoder side. So, over the decoder side also, we have some points. So, let me write those points also.
Sunny Savita: With that, you will get a, understanding, okay? So, while we are learning this, transformer architecture, we can talk about, to this particular point, okay? With that, your understanding will be clear. And see, guys, this transformer was a very, like, very, what I can say, very extensive research, okay? There are, we are, even, though we are going to be learned this thing within a… for the
Sunny Savita: entire month, right? We will not be able to cover. So I will teach you this thing in such a way that you will understand the concept, and even you will be able to answer in the interview also, right? So this is on the decoder side. You can see over here, this is all the terms, basically, over the decoder side.
Sunny Savita: So let's, see what all points, basically, we have if we're talking about this encoder and the decoder. So, let me, highlight over here. So, this is the encoder side, guys. I can again show you over here. This is the encoder side.
Sunny Savita: And we're talking about a decoder, guys, so this is the decoder side.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This one is a decoder site. So we're talking about an encoder, so we have to understand about the, this one.
Sunny Savita: What we have to understand? The input sequence. How the input is being provided to the model. This one.
Sunny Savita: Then we have to understand about the input embedding, okay? How the input is being converted into the embedding. So, input sequence, basically, it will be a parallel one. Means, parallelly, actually, we are going to be provided data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Parallelly only, we are going to be provided data. Now, this, data, guys, we are going to be provided parallelly, and how we are going to be provided in terms of tokens.
Sunny Savita: Right? So first, we are going to be convert the data into the tokens, and that particular data we are going to be provide parallelly. And then, the embedding layer comes, so we, convert our data using the word2Bag.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We convert the data into the embedding using this word-to-back model. Then we apply this positional encoding to sustain the sequence of the data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? To sustain the sequence of the data, sequence of the data, what we do, guys? We apply this positional encoding. Okay? Then this self-attention concept comes. This self-attention, basically, it is a concept of the QKB.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so query, key, and value. So there, actually, we perform the linear transformation of the data.
Sunny Savita: Linear transformation of the data to extract the information from the data, from the sentences, then we add the normalization layer, then we add the feed-forward neural network, then we apply the residual connection, okay? Then, basically, repeating the encoder block means we can have as many as encoder block.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about the research paper, this, transformer research paper. So, they cap the 6 stack, okay? They cap the 6 encoder block on top of each one.
Sunny Savita: Right? So we can have as many as an encoder block on top of each one, right? So you can see this many steps, basically, is happening inside the encoder, basically. So whenever we are passing our data, the data is being passed in a parallel fashion.
Sunny Savita: The data is being passed in the form of tokens. We are going to be convert the data into the word-to-back embedding. Then we are going to be… sustain the sequence of the data using this positional encoding. Then we are passing this data through the self-attention layer. This is called the multi-attention.
Sunny Savita: Then we are applying some, normalization, residual, feed forward, then we are passing it from the feed forward and all.
Sunny Savita: If I wanted to add one more encoder stack on top of it, I can do that. Otherwise, I will pass this particular input where over the decoder size. Now, inside the decoder size, what is happening, guys? So, this is all the thing which is happening under the decoder size, okay?
Sunny Savita: So inside the decoder size also, we are going to be perform the positional encoding, we have this mask multi-attention, okay? Then there is one more concept, the cross attention, basically. Sometime it is being asked inside the interview also, what is the cross attention, right? Then, guys, this, all the thing will follow inside the decoder.
Sunny Savita: And after that only, we'll get the output, right?
Sunny Savita: So guys, whenever we're talking about any, model, any, basically model, so whether the model is going to be a neural network model, whether the model is going to be, basically this, LSTM model, okay, whether the model is going to be this transformer model.
Sunny Savita: Right? Transformer model. So, guys, this model is having two phases, right? Every model basically is having two phases inside the AI. The first phase, basically, is called the… the first phase of the model is called the training, actually.
Sunny Savita: What it is called, guys, tell me. It is called the training, right? And the second phase of the model is called the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: Inferencing. Okay. The second phase of the model is called the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: Or, it is also called the prediction.
Sunny Savita: It is also called WAS, it is also called the prediction, right?
Sunny Savita: So, inferencing and the prediction. Now, I can give you the example, guys. With that example, maybe your understanding will be clear. You are using GPT model, ChatGPT model. Sorry, you are using ChatGPT or GPT model. Now, tell me, guys, you are doing training of that model, or you are doing inferencing to that model?
Sunny Savita: Tell me. Whenever you are giving any sort of a prompt, right, it is giving you the answer. It is giving you the answer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you are using this particular model in an inferencing phase.
Sunny Savita: You are using this GPT model in the inferencing phase. So, who has performed the training? Who has done this training?
Sunny Savita: Who has completed this training? Tell me. Who has completed this training?
Sunny Savita: OpenAI, OpenAI Developer, OpenAI Developer, actually, OpenAI Developer already performed the training, they have already performed the training of this particular model, okay? Already, they have performed the training of the GPT model, and guys, they have provided you.
Sunny Savita: They have provided you via any application, right? So GPT actually is a model, ChatGPT is an application. So they are providing you the GPT model through the ChatGPT application, and what you are doing, guys, you are just doing a prediction, you are just doing an inferencing.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? Tell me. Is it getting clear to all of you? So whenever we are going to be understanding any architecture, whether it's a neural network architecture, LSTM architecture, transformer architecture.
Sunny Savita: So, we have to understand it in a two-phase. The first is called the training phase, and second is called the inferencing phase, right? So, here, whatever steps specifically I have mentioned with respect to this encoder and decoder, so it is related to the training phase of the model.
Sunny Savita: It is related to the training phase of the model.
Sunny Savita: It is related to what, guys? Tell me. It is related to the training phase of the model. Getting my point? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay? So we'll come to this particular step again, one by one, we'll decode each and every step, and you will understand that. Okay? So tell me, guys, how's the session so far? Are you learning so many concepts and all?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So I'm going very, very… I'm going slowly only, and within 2 to 3 class guys will understand all this thing.
Sunny Savita: And, you will get to know about a transformer. But again, I'm saying, guys, this transformer is a bigger and the typical topic, okay? So we'll understand only that much, which is required for the interview, and, we'll understand each and every component of it, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, now guys, let's, do one thing, see? If we're talking about the transformer, so the transformer is having one very famous block.
Sunny Savita: Okay, whenever we try to export this transformer.
Sunny Savita: So, we look into one very famous blog. That blog, basically, is what… it is written by the JLMR, okay?
Sunny Savita: Jay Almar. So, I'm providing you the link of this particular blog, even you can go through with it, and you can explore this transformer training from your end also. But don't worry, each and everything I've shown you over here as well, over the Blackboard, right? So, once you will go through with the Google, once you will open the Google, guys, now here, if you will write.
Sunny Savita: Here, guys, if you will write.
Sunny Savita: This, J alamar, okay?
Sunny Savita: J. Alamar.
Sunny Savita: transformer. So, just write this JLMR transformer. You will get one blog, guys. It's a very famous blog on top of the transformer training.
Sunny Savita: So first, we'll take an initial understanding of the transformer using this particular architecture and all, and then step by step, one by one, we'll try to… I will try to explain you everything over the blackboard, okay? So, I'm providing you this link, so that at least you can go through with it, and you can underst… you can do some self-study and all from your end as well.
Sunny Savita: Now, if you wanted to understand this block, let's say if you're not willing to read this blog, so what you can do, guys, you can do very… one simple thing.
Sunny Savita: Just open the ChatGPT, let's say this is your ChatGPT, okay? Just copy the entire thing from here, from the chat, from this particular blog, right? Or from any blog, basically. Just open the ChatGPT, copy everything from here, and paste it to the ChatGPT, and ask to the ChatGPT, can you explain me this thing?
Sunny Savita: Can you?
Sunny Savita: Explain me this thing.
Sunny Savita: In very simple words, okay? In very simple words. Now, see, guys, if you will provide this particular blog, if you will provide any sort of a blog, or any sort of a notes to the ChatGPT, and if you will ask to, basically summarize it, or just to explain them, see, ChatGPT will do it for you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so ChatGPT will do it for you, and you can understand it in a well manner.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, in the same way also, you can perform your learning, okay? So, I hope, guys, everything is getting clear so far, and I'm going to be explaining everything over the Blackboard, so no need to worry about anything. You will understand the every crux of the transformer. Don't worry, guys. So, one…
Sunny Savita: trans… blog.
Sunny Savita: over the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Don't miss this one, right? So you can do some self-learning using this particular blog.
Sunny Savita: blog of the transformer. Don't miss this one.
Sunny Savita: I'm just writing it inside the Notion only.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. So, fine, I think we can take a break now, a quick dinner break, and after that, guys, we'll continue our journey in the Transformer. So I hope, guys, you are enjoying the learning, and yeah, after the break, guys, we'll continue this learning. So, should I give you the break? Just let me know in the chat, so that I can put the timer.
Sunny Savita: Sir, do we have access, all the classes in the Notion app? Yes, whatever is there, you will get it inside the GitHub itself.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So guys, I'm putting a timer for next 15 minutes.
Sunny Savita: Someone is saying for 30-minute… okay, 30 minute timer, huh?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: 20 minute, guys, 20 minute ka, 15 minute ka, kitty minute ka, chi, batau.
Sunny Savita: 15 minutes?
Sunny Savita: Yes, we'll go in the deep of the architecture, don't worry, okay? Someone is writing in the community chat also. Let me open that, I think people are having doubts over there as well.
Sunny Savita: Okay… 15 minutes, 20 minutes, 15 minutes? Okay, I'll give for the 16… 18 minutes, okay?
Sunny Savita: Anand Singh is saying, not enjoying. Why, Anand?
Sunny Savita: What should I do now, tell me. Should I dance, huh?
Sunny Savita: Don't worry, okay? After some time, each and every understanding is going to be clear, okay, Anand, just be patient over here. Keep patience, for, like, a couple of classes, one or two classes.
Sunny Savita: You will understand the transformer, don't worry, okay?
Sunny Savita: And, see, again, we have to become a developer, we have to focus on the development side. If still you are not able to understand this transformer and all.
Sunny Savita: Leave it, guys, okay? Don't be panicked about it.
Sunny Savita: focus on the project and the practical learning, okay? This is my advice, right? Because, see, I'm working from the past 7 years on this data science, machine learning, and all. I'm completely working on the application side. Guys, in one or two interviews, I've given more than 20 interviews, except in 1 and 2 interviews, no one has asked me about this thing.
Sunny Savita: So, we have to understand this thing on a fundamental level, okay? We have to understand this thing just for the interview perspective and all.
Sunny Savita: But guys, we have to more focus over the practical side, right? So, don't worry, 2 to 3 classes, just dedicated for the transformer. You will understand the transformer architecture in detail. Don't worry, guys. So, this, self-attention and all, cross-attention, every sort of a thing, I will clarify, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great, guys.
Sunny Savita: So, fine, I can… Okay, I'll show you that. Don't worry, Mombo, I'll discuss that, okay?
Sunny Savita: That one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, same kind of doubt, is here also. Fine. Thank you. So, putting a timer for next, 18 minutes.
Sunny Savita: And then we'll start the session.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, everybody.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I think, everyone is back. Can we start with the session again?
Sunny Savita: Please, let me know in the chat so that we can start.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, we have prepared the foundation of the
Sunny Savita: we have prepared the foundation of the transformer, right? Now, guys, we have to understand, the different, different components and all, everything regarding the transformer, okay? Just give me a moment, wait.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, we have prepared the foundation for this, transformer. Now we have to understand, the each and every component, related to this, transformer, okay? So, what I'll do, guys, I'll,
Sunny Savita: start from where? From the basics only, right? Each and everything will try to understand regarding this transformer.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Great. So, first.
Sunny Savita: from where we are going to be start. See, I've given you one blog, you can read it out, this, from your end.
Sunny Savita: And even I will give you the quick walkthrough of that, okay? So, if we're talking about, the transformer guy, see, we have to understand a couple of, more concepts.
Sunny Savita: So, let me highlight, some concept over here. The first thing, basically, will focus, how the data, basically, is being processed, how the data is being basically passed into the transformer, okay? So, I, shown you the architecture of that. See, this is the architecture.
Sunny Savita: Of the transformer, okay? This was. Now, if we wanted to pass the data into this transformer, so how we will pass that? So, we are not going to be pass that data sequentially. We will pass the data parallelly. Now, what is the meaning of that? How, basically, we are saying we are going to be passing the data parallelly.
Sunny Savita: Let me tell you that, okay? And don't worry, guys, each and everything, will be clarified. So, here, let's say if I'm going to be right…
Sunny Savita: If I'm going to be right, what I can write, guys. I can write anything, correct? So, if I write any sort of a sentence, let's say this is my sentence. Sunny.
Sunny Savita: is…
Sunny Savita: mentor.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, if I wanted to provide… if I wanted to pass this particular data to my transformer model, so how I will do that? See, let's say how many tokens we have, if I'm going to be… convert this particular sentence into the token, so how many tokens we have? This is the first token, Sunny.
Sunny Savita: This is the second token, A's, then this is the third one, A, and this is the fourth one, right?
Sunny Savita: This is a 4 token. So we have 4 token over here, okay? I'm assuming we have a 4 token. So we are not going to be pass our data like this. Means, first I'm passing Sunny, then I'm passing A's, then I'm passing A, then I'm passing mentor, okay? Step by step means sequentially, we are not passing the data.
Sunny Savita: Sequentially, actually, we are passing the data where inside the LSTM, right? But if we wanted to train this transformer model, so we will be passing this particular data how? We will be passing this particular data parallelly only, okay? Like this only.
Sunny Savita: parallel only. So we will pass all the token in a single shot. This is the one thing, right? Now.
Sunny Savita: what all thing we need to be understand in order to this, transfer… in order to this encoder one, right? So let me write, those points over here. See, the first thing, basically, which is going to be, important over here, that's going to be a positional encoding.
Sunny Savita: So we'll, discuss about the positional encoding, like, how this positional encoding works.
Sunny Savita: Now, the second, concept… the second concept, basically, it's going to be, let me write over here, digital encoding.
Sunny Savita: and coding. The second concept, basically, we'll understand about the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: will understand what? We'll understand about the self-attention. Or sometimes it is also called the multi-air self-attention.
Sunny Savita: multi-head.
Sunny Savita: Self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Then, the third one, basically, the end-to-end working of the encoder, okay? Layer normalization, residual, and the feed-forward. So, layer normalization is nothing, we are just going to be normalize that number.
Sunny Savita: After that, guys, we have a residual.
Sunny Savita: Residual connection. So this connection, basically, this arrow you are seeing now, this one. So this is called the residual connection. So why we use this residual connection? We'll understand about that also. In the next, basically, we have a feed-forward network.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Feed-forward network means this one. So, what is the meaning of the feed-forward network? So, this is nothing, it's a neural network only.
Sunny Savita: So first, we pass the data from the self-attention, and after that only, we'll pass the data from the feed-forward network. That is called the neural network, right? So, this is the one thing. Means, we are going to be passed the data, in a… we are going to be passing the data, into this encoder, into this transformer, parallel, okay? We are passing all this particular data, entire data, parallelly.
Sunny Savita: Don't worry, guys, I have each and every note, so it means,
Sunny Savita: I'll decode this particular step. First, I'm keeping all this thing, all this concept in your mind, okay? So that later on, you can connect these entire dots. So, what, is going to be a step? See, whenever we will get a data, any sort of a text, any sort of a paragraph, right? So, first, what we do, guys, we perform the tokenization of that.
Sunny Savita: We perform the tokenization of that particular data.
Sunny Savita: Tokenization means what? We are going to be convert the data into the small, small token. Okay, small, small words, right? We have a huge paragraph, we have a huge sentence and all. We are going to be convert the data into the tokens. The second one, basically, after that, we are going to be convert the token into the embedding.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We are going to be… convert this particular data, the token, basically, into the embedding. So, for this embedding, we use the word-to-back model.
Sunny Savita: We use what? We use the vertube-back model, okay? And the dimension of this particular embedding, basically, it's going to be 512, right? 512, a dimension, okay?
Sunny Savita: Means in the official research paper, they have mentioned, the embedding model which they have used, the dimension of that, it was a 512, but, it could be anything. If you are going to be training your own LLM, you can keep any sort of a dimension. So, what we have understood so far, we understood, guys, so whenever we get any sort of a data, let's say we have a data, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So we perform the tokenization of the data, we perform the… we perform the embedding of that particular data, and we pass this data parallelly
Sunny Savita: will pass this particular data parallelly to the model, okay, for the training, basically. And even in the inferencing also, it will go in a same way, right? So these three particular steps are the permanent one. Always it will happen whenever you are going to be trained, whenever you are going to be trained this transformer model.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what comes after that, guys, this fourth concept is going to be a positional encoding, which is also called PE, okay? Then, after only, this attention will come, which is called the self-attention, right?
Sunny Savita: which is called what? Which is called the self-attention. So I can write over here, self-attention, right?
Sunny Savita: self-attention. So this too, actually, this, self-attention, after the self-attention, basically, what will come, guys? The data will be passed from where? From the feed-forward network, okay? Feed-forward neural network, okay?
Sunny Savita: So this two-step, basically, it is an important one.
Sunny Savita: for the learning. So here only, my entire learning is happening. Here only, my entire learning is happening with respect to my data, okay? Tokenization, embedding, the data is being passed parallelly, then positional encoding, then attention, which is called the self-attention, and feed-forward network, okay? Feed-forward neural network means the same neural network, okay?
Sunny Savita: neural network, which we know. Getting my point, guys?
Sunny Savita: And don't worry, again, this attention and all, welcome. As of now, I'm just giving the overview, okay? So, if you wanted to, let's say, if you wanted to talk about this, if you wanted to talk about this, model, right? This, basically, transformer model, so how simplified you can do it means how simply you can describe, how simply you can, showcase to someone, right?
Sunny Savita: So you can simply say, if there is a transformer model, right? So in the transformer model, basically, we can pass the data into the parallel manner, and the data, basically, it will mainly go through with the self-attention layer and the feed-forward network, feed-forward network for the learning, okay? There, only my learning will happen. Mainly, the learning is going to be happen, the dynamic embedding, basically, which we are talking about, so the dynamic embedding, basically, the male learning, it is happening.
Sunny Savita: happening inside the self-attention layer, okay? Inside the self-attention layer, that learning was happening. Now, guys, before coming to this transformer and all, we'll have to understand the self-attention, okay? What is the meaning of the self-attention? So, as of now, I will, show you the verbally, okay? I will take one example, and I'll show you that verbally, okay? So, I was talking about, see, before this, transformer
Sunny Savita: model in 2016, one more research paper was published.
Sunny Savita: So, inside this research paper, they explain the concept of the attention.
Sunny Savita: They explain the concept of what? They explain the concept of the attention.
Sunny Savita: Now, in 2018, this transformer model was published.
Sunny Savita: And, guys, here, instead of the attention, they were talking about the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: self-attention. So, what about tokenization? I hope we haven't covered…
Sunny Savita: yeah, tokenization, all, everything will come, even I will show you practically also, Riaj, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Sir, what is a positional encoding and all? Everything will discuss that, okay? Everything will discuss. See, let me show you the notes, basically. I already prepared notes for all of you guys, okay? So, in this particular way, basically, we are going to be decode the complete architecture. See, I can show you that. So, most probably in the next class, after show… telling you all the fundamental and all, we'll discuss that. Can you see this particular notes, guys? See?
Sunny Savita: I already decode this transformer architecture on this low level, see? How we are… this is the data, how we are going to be tokenized there, then it is going through the embedding model, then this is the positional encoding, okay, then this is the multi-ed cell repotential layer.
Sunny Savita: Now, how this multi-set of potential layer will be working, okay? So everything we are going to be discussed in the same way, okay? Maybe in the next class, I'll show you this thing. Means,
Sunny Savita: Okay? Don't worry. So… Over here, guys, see, first, let's understand.
Sunny Savita: the differences between what? The differences between the attention and the self-attention. So, inside the 2016 paper, actually, this paper, it was belong… it was dependent on the machine translation problem.
Sunny Savita: machine.
Sunny Savita: translation problem, okay? They were trying to solve this particular problem statement, machine translation, okay? Machine translation. Now, over here, see, they have used the, they have used the self-attention, sorry, they have used the attention concept for that.
Sunny Savita: So, what's the meaning of attention? See, I can explain you with one example. So, here, let's see if I'm going to be right. I'm just going to be right one sentence.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: PV.
Sunny Savita: Chalu.
Sunny Savita: Kur?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this is my sentence, right? Now, here I'm going to be write a translation of it. Let's say here I'm writing…
Sunny Savita: turn.
Sunny Savita: on.
Sunny Savita: Turn on.
Sunny Savita: D.
Sunny Savita: Phoebe.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, this is what, this is my Hindi sentence, and this is what? This is my English sentence, okay? Now here, guys, if we're talking about this chalu, right? This one, this Chalu. So, it is belonging to which word?
Sunny Savita: It is belonging to this turn, it is belonging to this on, it is belonging to this the, or TV. Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about this Chalu.
Sunny Savita: It is belonging to which one. So where I will provide a more weightage?
Sunny Savita: with respect to this Chalu. Tell me. So, we're talking about this Chalu guy, see?
Sunny Savita: Here, it is belonging to this on, okay? Here, basically, I will get a more… more… here, only I will provide a more weightage, actually, right? So, turn, it is going to be a less one, okay?
Sunny Savita: Let me highlight with a different one. So, turn is going to be less, okay, this is also this. But if we're talking about on, guys, so we can clearly see, this charloo, actually, it is… this charlu, actually, it is depending, it is belonging to this particular world.
Sunny Savita: This one. It is belonging to… it is belonging to which word? It is belonging to this particular word. So, in the attention, basically, they were trying to solve this particular problem statement, okay? Inside the attention, basically, they were trying to solve this particular problem statement. It was just the attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay, attention. Means, you are having one sentence in one language, let's say this is the Hindi language, and this is the English language. So, which word actually belonging to which word? Right? And they were trying to find out a weight and all, so for that again, the different mathematical, like, the complete derivation. And,
Sunny Savita: for finding out the weight, basically, in between, they were using some, neural network concept, actually, okay? And then they were passing this particular data, to the, LSTM encoder and decoder, okay? LSTM-based encoder and decoder. So there is a complete concept behind it, this, attention, okay? This attention layer, which was introduced in 2016.
Sunny Savita: But, guys, the self-attention, basically, it was different than this attention, okay? So, how this self-attention was different? Let me tell you that. So, here, I'm going to write one more sentence, and just focus on that.
Sunny Savita: So, let's say here I'm writing, turn, Okay. Turn. On.
Sunny Savita: D.
Sunny Savita: TV.
Sunny Savita: turn on the TV, okay? Or let's say, turn on the light. Whatever I can write, guys, let's say, I'm going to be right over here, turn on the light. Now, here also I'm going to be right, same sentence, turn on the light.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, guys, just tell me over here, if we're talking about this on. Okay. So, if we're talking about this on, it is belonging to which particular word? In the same sentence, it is referring to which one?
Sunny Savita: It is referring to this on, means we have a very high weightage, okay? It is referring to this light also, right? It is referring to this light. What I wanted to on, I wanted to on the light. So, see, what is the concept of the self-attention? So, the concept of the self-attention was simple.
Sunny Savita: Means, inside the same sentence itself, we were trying to find out a weightage with respect to the other word.
Sunny Savita: We were trying to find out a weightage with respect to the other word, okay? Let me write over here. So, self-attention, what was the self-attention, guys? See, this self-attention, this is a self-explanatory, actually. See, this word. Self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Earlier, basically, inside this research paper, they have introduced the concept of the attention with respect to the machine translation. Then, researcher thought, okay, let's do one thing. For the context sustainability.
Sunny Savita: for the context sustainability, let's do one thing. Let's use something like self-attention. So what this self-attention was doing? So, self-attention, basically, let me write over here, it was…
Sunny Savita: It was… Trying to… it was trying to… Find out… find out… the weightage, the weightage, Okay.
Sunny Savita: It was trying to find out the weightage, W-E-I-G-S-T, let me write over here. It was trying to find out the weight, weightage, okay?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys.
Sunny Savita: the weightage.
Sunny Savita: of any word, of any word, in the… Same.
Sunny Savita: sentence, okay?
Sunny Savita: In the same sentence. So this was a concept, basically, behind the self-attention. This self, actually, it is representing to the self, the same sentence, actually, right? So turn on the light. Now, this on, basically, it is belonging to which word inside the same sentence. So it is belonging to which one? It is belonging to this on. So, here we have a clear-cut connection, right? Now, here I can give one. Now, this light, basically, I wanted to turn on this light, right?
Sunny Savita: Here, I can give 0.9.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this on, basically, it is… it is very closely, right, following to this word, inside the same sentence. So because of that, guys, we were able to sustain the context of the sentence.
Sunny Savita: The dynamic context, basically, I was talking about now? The dynamic context, basically, which I was talking about with respect to the data, sentence, embedding, right? So, it is because of this only. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you? Now, I can show you the same thing. Now I can show you the same thing with the research paper.
Sunny Savita: So, if you will go through with the research paper, see, here is a research paper. Just a second, guys, I can show you.
Sunny Savita: There was the research paper.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so this is the research paper, guys. This is the research paper from the attention, guys, this one, from 2016 paper. So just, scroll down over here.
Sunny Savita: And once you will scroll down inside the paper, guys, you will see.
Sunny Savita: They are trying to do the same thing, okay? I think they have mentioned one example. Can you see this particular example? This one?
Sunny Savita: Is it visible to all of you, this particular example? So, left-hand side, what we have over here?
Sunny Savita: I already shared this research paper with you. Please check with the notion, okay? So, here, guys, you can see, on the left-hand side, which language we have.
Sunny Savita: which language we have in the left-hand side. Maybe this is a French, right? I don't know. Maybe it is a French, correct? On the right-hand side, so over here, what is this? This one?
Sunny Savita: This is the English language.
Sunny Savita: This is the English language, and this is the French language.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, guys, this white box is what it is trying to represent. It is trying to represent the intensity, okay? Now, over here, you will see, this is what is a Europe, European.
Sunny Savita: So this European and this European, this one, is having an intro… it is having the strong connection, this one, so it is a more white.
Sunny Savita: This is a more white.
Sunny Savita: This is the more white. Now, this Europe and Joan is not having any connection, so here you can see this is the black.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? French, Spanish, whatever is there, but you can see over here.
Sunny Savita: This one. This is the English language, and this is the French language. So, on top of this particular concept only, they have built up the attention. On top of this particular, on top of this particular problem only, that machine translation only, they have, implemented… they have, like, in, sorry, they have built up this attention concept, okay?
Sunny Savita: They researched, they did the research around to this attention only. They were trying to find out the weightage of each word, this, each word, with respect to the translated one.
Sunny Savita: With the translated one, okay? So, this was the attention. Now, the Google researcher, actually, in 2018, they have launched the… they have released the attention, all you need paper now. They have carried the same concept, but within a sentence.
Sunny Savita: But within a sentence, basically, they're trying to find out the weightage, okay? Now, let me show you the transformer research paper. So, what I can do, guys, I can write over here, transformer.
Sunny Savita: research paper, okay?
Sunny Savita: Transformer Research Paper. I'm just searching, and I can show you that. Transformer research paper. So, you will get it. You will get it.
Sunny Savita: See, just open this research paper, and scroll till the last. So once you will scroll till the last, guys.
Sunny Savita: Si.
Sunny Savita: Is it visible to all of you? This, this one? This, I hope it is visible, this one. See?
Sunny Savita: It is the same sentence. Tell me, guys, it is the same sentence only, this one. The law will never be perfect, but 8 applications should be just… this is what we are missing, in my opinion. So, it's the same sentence. This sentence…
Sunny Savita: And this sentence. So what this self-attention is trying to do, basically.
Sunny Savita: What the self-attention is trying to do? The self-attention, basically, it's trying to find out the weightage
Sunny Savita: Of the word inside the given sentence.
Sunny Savita: Okay, inside the given same sentence, so that they can check the dynamic behavior, they can sustain the context of the sentence.
Sunny Savita: they can sustain the context of the sentence. Making sense to all of you guys? Yes or no? Tell me. So, if you will look into this.
Sunny Savita: machine translation paper, this particular paper, this one. So, this was based on the… this… this… basically, it was based on the
Sunny Savita: two languages, means one was the different language, one was the other language. They were trying to find out a weightage, okay? So this was fine for one single problem statement, that was a machine translation. But if we're talking about this research paper, the transformer research paper, the original research paper, so here, basically, they were trying to find out a weightage of the word inside the same sentence.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Inside the same sentence, see, they have given you the different, different, basically, example. Different, different example, basically, they have given you over here. Even if you will check with the Jaal Amar blog, the Almar, the Jaal Almar blog, basically, which I've shown you, so inside this, blog also, he has shown you one example.
Sunny Savita: This one. So, inside this example, you can see it's time to explain the concept of the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: So, what he's writing inside the example, the animal did not cross the street because it was too tired. Now, tell me, guys, this animal is represent… this it, actually, this it word, it is representing to whom? It is representing to the animal did not cross the street because… tell me, guys, this it is representing to whom?
Sunny Savita: This it is representing to whom, over here. This it, actually, it is representing to what? This it, actually, it is representing to the animal.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. Is it getting clear or not?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no, guys? Is it getting clear? Now, if someone is going to be ask you, if someone is going to be ask you what is a self-attention, what you will say, guys?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: What you will say, guys, what is a self-attention? What is a self-attention? So, you will simply say this thing, right? You will… you can simply say one thing with respect to the self-attention. I can mention over here this one. Just a second. See?
Sunny Savita: This is the word. Self-attention, basically, a word looking at the other word in the same sentence to understand its meaning. Making sense to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes or no. And what you can do, guys, you can give this particular example.
Sunny Savita: You can give what? You can give this particular example for the better understanding. So, what I can do, I can take a snapshot of it, and I can keep it over there, okay? So you can give this particular example, if someone is going to be asked you, like, what is a attention? Sorry, what is a self-attention? This one. Okay, it is just on a, like, some, analogy level, right? On some theoretical level. So, on a mathematical level, we'll understand how this thing is being
Sunny Savita: prove, basically, how this thing is being… is being proved. So this thing, basically, is being proved using the con… Using the self-attention concept, okay? This QKV concept.
Sunny Savita: Using this QKB concept, basically, this QKB concept, this thing was being proved. So we'll understand this part, we'll look into it, how, basically, this thing was being proven.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you? Yes or no? So, for this one, basically, we'll have to understand this matrixes, this QKV matrixes, how it is working. I kept one very good example, you will understand that.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me, tell me. Till here, everything is fine, everything is clear. If this concept is clear.
Sunny Savita: If this concept is clear, I can proceed, guys, okay? So this is, like, some sort of a definition which we need to understand. If we are good to go with this particular definition, then we can understand in a better way, right? Now, guys, see, I can give you one example, okay?
Sunny Savita: With that, maybe, you will understand the importance of this self-attention, right? So, what I can do, I can write, that particular example.
Sunny Savita: Just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, I capped that sentence, okay? So, I can… Right for all of you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, guys. So, let's say…
Sunny Savita: Here, I'm going to be write one sentence, right? The sentence is going to be what? See?
Sunny Savita: Apple, Apple.
Sunny Savita: launch.
Sunny Savita: launch, okay, Apple launch a new phone, new phone.
Sunny Savita: Apple launch a new phone, while while…
Sunny Savita: I. I was… I was eating.
Sunny Savita: when I was eating the apple.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now guys, tell me over here, see?
Sunny Savita: this apple, this apple… This apple, and this apple, both are the different one.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? So this… this particular apple basically is what? This particular apple is a phone.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and this particular apple is what? This is a fruit, guys.
Sunny Savita: fruit, guys. So, using the self-attention, actually, using the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we can generate that dynamic embedding.
Sunny Savita: We can generate the…
Sunny Savita: Dynamic embedding. Dynamic embedding means what? For this apple, for this apple, the number is going to be different, right? And for this apple, guys, the number is going to be different.
Sunny Savita: For this apple, the number is going to be different. For this apple, the number is going to be different, okay? Because it is representing a fawn, and it is representing a fruit.
Sunny Savita: How it is possible, guys, how this thing is possible? Because the self-attention concept, it is looking into the same sentence.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so Apple launched a new phone while I was eating apple. So this apple, guys, and this apple, because of the self-attention concept, it will be treated as in a… it will be treated in a different manner. Okay, both is going to be different over here. Making sense to all of you guys, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. So Apple, yeah, it's a phone or company, whatever you can say, it's a company, phone company, right? So I can write over here, it's a company.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And this is what? This is the fruit.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? So, this kind of problem, basically, it could be easily solved, using the self-attention. And that's why, guys, this LLM, basically, it's so powerful. If you are providing this type of sentence to the LLM, it can even understand the context. Why? Because it is using the self-attention concept in a backend.
Sunny Savita: Okay, self-attention concept in a backend. Now, I can write over here one more thing, see?
Sunny Savita: I can, basically write.
Sunny Savita: I can give you one very good example, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, the example is going to be what? Let me tell you the example. And tomorrow, in the next class, guys, we'll, decode each and every step of the transformer, okay? So here, guys, I am, teaching you everything on a high level. It means, this thing is happening, that thing is happening, this is the… this comes inside the transformer, that comes inside the transformer, okay? And the architecture, basically, which I've shown you over the blackboard, we are going to be decoding the same way, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, 2 to 3 more classes dedicated to this transformer only, right? Now, guys, see, what I'm doing…
Sunny Savita: So, just a second…
Sunny Savita: Yeah. So what I'm doing, guys, over here, I'm just going to be write one more sentence over here. Okay, now focus. This is important. So what sentence I'm going to be right? See, I'm going to be right over here. The sentence is going to be this one.
Sunny Savita: money… money… bank.
Sunny Savita: grows.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now here, I can write over here, see one more sentence, river, Bank.
Sunny Savita: flows. Okay, so this is my sentence 1, and this is my sentence 2.
Sunny Savita: Right? This one. Now, guys, if we're talking about a transformer, C, we'll understand how transformer is treating to this particular data, okay? So this is what? This is my one-word bank.
Sunny Savita: And this is what? This is my… another word bank.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This one. So guys, whenever we're talking about a transformer, okay, so I can, show you over here, see?
Sunny Savita: This is the transformer, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, inside this transformer, what we have, we have two very important things, right?
Sunny Savita: The first is going to be what? Let me draw over here. The first thing is going to be this one.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is a feed-forward neural network. And the second is going to be what? Second is going to be the attention, okay? Self-attention network, self-attention layer. Now, whenever any data comes over here, right, so let's say if I'm going to be write a sentence, the sentence is going to be what? The sentence is going to be money
Sunny Savita: Okay. Money.
Sunny Savita: money.
Sunny Savita: bank.
Sunny Savita: money bank grows, okay? So, this is my sentence. So, the sentence will come, and I will pass this particular sentence through the transformer. So, what is the first step, guys? Tell me, what is the first step?
Sunny Savita: The first step, basically, it's a…
Sunny Savita: tokenization, okay? So I will perform the tokenization of my data. Means this particular data will be divided into the separate, separate world. So money would be there, right?
Sunny Savita: Bank would be there. See, this is what? This is my… another word, bank, right? Then, guys, gross would be there, gross would be there, this is what? This is the gross, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what is my second step?
Sunny Savita: But second step, basically, to perform the embedding of the data, okay? Because for the mathematical calculation, I will have to convert my data into the numbers now, right? So I will perform the embedding. So let's say this is the embedding of my data, this one.
Sunny Savita: So I converted my data where I converted my data into the embedding, this one. Okay, now this is what? This is my data.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my data, okay? This one. Now, what will happen, guys? See? The third one, third one is what, guys? Tell me, third one what I'll do, I'll add the positional encoding, okay? Positional encoding means what? So, I will add one more layer over here. This is going to be a positional encoding layer, this one.
Sunny Savita: So, I will attach this particular layer with my each of the vector, okay? So, this layer, basically, is going to be attached with each of the vector. Now, this is what, guys, this is my positional encoding layer. I can mention over here this one.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my positional encoding layer, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This one. So, I'll show you that in the next class, guys. We can understand this one. Okay? So, this is what, this is my positional and coating layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this one. So with this, both thing will be merged, and this will be pass where, parallelie, guys, this is going to be passed where, so this is going to be passed to the self-potential layer, okay? Like this, it will be pass.
Sunny Savita: like this, guys, this data will be passed, okay? So this is the first row, this is the second row, okay? Like this, this data will be passed. So this is the data which is merged into the one single matrix, one single matrix.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: One single metrics.
Sunny Savita: Right? One single matrix, and this data, basically, it is being passed where? This data, basically, it is being passed inside the attention layer. This is what? This is the attention. Or I can say it is a self-attention layer. Okay, so let me mention over here, it is a self-attention layer.
Sunny Savita: Self.
Sunny Savita: Attention.
Sunny Savita: layer, okay? Now, after the self-attention, guys, this data will be normalized and all, and the data basically will be passed to where? This data will be passed to the feed-forward neural network, okay? Feed-forward.
Sunny Savita: neural network layer, right? So this attention layer, basically, it is an important one. The context sustainability, which I was telling you, right?
Sunny Savita: So, it's going to be understand the context. It's going to be understanding over here itself, inside the self-attention layer. Now, how this sentence will be treated, okay? How this particular sentence, this data, basically, which I combined into the particular data, how it will be treated inside the self-attention layer, right? What this self-attention is doing, right? Everything will be the metrics operation in a backend, guys. Everything is going to be a metrics operation.
Sunny Savita: Okay, metrics, multiplication, and all everything, right? But how the self-attention is treating to that particular sentence? Let me tell you over here. So, let's say this is my sentence. So, this sentence, basically, it will be represented to the… into the another sentence, okay? This sentence, basically, it will be represented to the, in the form of the, like, another word, okay? Inside the same sentence. Let me write over here. With that, your understanding will be clear.
Sunny Savita: Let's say if I wanted to represent this
Sunny Savita: Bank word. So, how I will represent this bank word? So here, basically, I will be having the W1, which is a weight, okay? So, weight, money would be there.
Sunny Savita: Then, weight 2. This is going to be what? This is going to be bank. Okay. Then, guys, the third one is going to be what? Weight 3.
Sunny Savita: It is going to be gross. Okay? So, this one, guys, see, this one. This bank, actually, it will be represented like this. This bank, actually, it will be represented like this, and this is what my self-attention is doing. This self-attention, basically, it is trying to find out this particular weights, this particular weights, actually, this particular weights.
Sunny Savita: This particular weight, specifically, we are going to be find out using the concept of the self-attention, okay? Once the data will be entered into the self-attention, so it's trying to find out this particular weight with respect to each and every word inside the given data. Now, here, guys, if I wanted to represent this particular bank, okay, so here, what I can do, I can write a bank.
Sunny Savita: So how this bank will be represented? So, here we'll be having W1.
Sunny Savita: This is going to be what? This is going to be revert. Then, here is what? W2, okay? Then, guys, this is going to be banked. Then, here is what? W3, this is going to be flow, right? Flows.
Sunny Savita: This one. Okay, so this bank, basically, it is being represented like this. Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me, yes?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, yes. Now, over here, guys, just tell me…
Sunny Savita: Just tell me, see? If we're talking about, if we're talking about this bank, if we're talking about this bank, just answer for one thing over here. Okay, definitely this thing, basically, we are going to be achieved with the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: We are going to be, achieve with the self-attention mathematically, right? But just tell me over here, this, with respect to this bank, this money weightage will be high.
Sunny Savita: This money bites will be high, this one, this W1 will be high.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. Now, with respect to this bank, with respect to this bank, definitely this weight is going to be high, this one, this weightage is going to be high, yes or no. Because this bank, actually, it is belonging to the river.
Sunny Savita: So, river weightage will be high over here. This bank, actually, it is belonging to money, so this weightage will be high over here.
Sunny Savita: So this is what self-attention is doing. This is what self-attention is doing.
Sunny Savita: Right? Let's say if I wanted to represent money, okay, the second word, money. So here, what I'm doing, guys, I'm writing a money.
Sunny Savita: Right? Money. So what I will do, I'll write a money, let's say this is my W1. Now, here is what? Here is my money. Okay, plus…
Sunny Savita: W2, this is what? This is my bank. Okay. Now, what we have? W3, this is going to be what? This is going to be gross, right? Now, tell me, guys, with respect to this money, which weightage would be high? Okay, this W2 is going to be high over here.
Sunny Savita: This W-2 is going to be high? Tell me yes or no, right? Because this money, actually, it is related to this bank, and this is what self-attention is doing, guys.
Sunny Savita: making sense to all of you what this self-attention is doing, actually. This one. See, this concept which I've shown you, you know, this one. How it is trying to find out. And we'll understand. See, it is all about this Q, K, B, and all, and we'll understand that.
Sunny Savita: Okay? I hope, this thing is being clear. Now, every word we can represent in the form of another word, okay? Every word we can represent in the form of another word. This is possible.
Sunny Savita: Making sense?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, gross also would be high, no? Yeah, definitely gross also would be high over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Grows also would be high. Means, money is related to the bank, this is true, but money is related also, grows also, right? So this weight and this weight will be high over here. Means, comparatively, it will be bigger one.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys? Yes or no? So, this all the things we… we underst… so far, this entire thing, we understood on a high level.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so now, once I will teach you this transformer and all, means once we'll deep dive into the architecture step by step, so it will be easy for you. It will be easy for you, because now we have built up the base, actually. So let's do one thing, guys. Let's go through with this, blog also, and in your weekdays, guys, right? So, you can go through with this particular blog.
Sunny Savita: And then in the next class, guys, we can decode the transformer step by step, completely, guys, okay? I can teach you the, basically this positional encoding, what it is, and how the cross attention is being performed, how the attention is being created, everything will understand. So, can we go through once, with this blog, guys? Tell me yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Step by step, I can explain you this architecture, at least.
Sunny Savita: Okay, give me 2 minutes, I'm just taking a water break, okay?
Sunny Savita: MTB leaderboard will discuss in the RAG, okay? In the initial of the session only, I just… I told you that part.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so everyone is there. Can we take a high, level look now? Yes or no? Just, give me quick confirmation, so that I can give you the high, level look of this transformer, okay? And then again, in the next class, we'll deep dive into that.
Sunny Savita: So, see, this is the transformer architecture, and inside the transformer architecture, how many, how many parts we have? We have two parts of it.
Sunny Savita: The first is called the encoder of it. This is the encoder, and the second part of it, it is called the decoder, okay? We are giving an input to this encoder, and it is going to be converted into the another language, okay? So this transformer, initially, in the original research paper.
Sunny Savita: They have introduced for the translation only, right? They have introduced this particular transformer model for the translation only.
Sunny Savita: No, guys, see.
Sunny Savita: Here you can see, we have a stack of the encoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we can keep as many as encoder. As many as encoder we can keep. Means, one encoder, right after another, we can keep one more encoder, okay? So inside the transformer research paper, actually, they have used the sixth encoder stack.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: How many encoder restricts they have used? They have used the 6 encoder restricts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Getting my point? So the entire input, basically, it was going through with this encoder, and it was generating the output.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, you know the hidden layer. If we're talking about the neural network. So, inside the neural network, we have a concept of the hidden layer. So, can anyone tell me how many hidden layers we need to be keep inside our neural network?
Sunny Savita: So, if we're talking about the header layer, guys, right? So, this is the hyperparameter. Hyperparameter means what?
Sunny Savita: We can keep as many as header layer. We can keep 5, we can keep 10, okay, we can keep 1, we can keep 15, we can keep 3, we can keep 100. As many as header layer we can keep inside our architecture, okay? So, similar to that, guys, this is also a hyperparameter.
Sunny Savita: So you can keep as many as encoder right after another one, okay? You can keep 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. Inside the original research paper, they kept the 6 encoder, and this is the identical encoder. Identical encoder means what? All the encoder were the same, okay? There was no architectural changes inside the encoder.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is this thing getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So what was the benefit of the multiple encoder? To decode the output more and more, okay? To… to extract the, to extract the, basically, what I can say.
Sunny Savita: To extract the essence of the input more and more.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, you can understand in such a way, let's say, if we are going to be process, if I wanted to, what I can do, guys? I… let's say, here is my orange, right? Orange.
Sunny Savita: Now, I wanted to, compress this orange, and I wanted to, like, take a juice off it, okay? I wanted to get a juice of it. So, there is a machine, machine…
Sunny Savita: From where I'm passing this orange.
Sunny Savita: So, I kept the multiple machine. Let's say I kept the 3 machine. Now, I… why I kept the 3 machine?
Sunny Savita: why I kept the three machines? So that… so that, guys, what we can do, we can get… we can, like, extract the… every essence of the orange, and we can get the very…
Sunny Savita: Refined juice, means,
Sunny Savita: Like the… what I can say. We are not leaving anything inside the orange, okay? We are trying to extract the entire essence of the orange, and we are getting a juice. Have you seen the sugar cane? Whenever we are trying to put the… whenever we are trying to get the juice of the sugar cane, right? So we are doing a multiple iteration out of that, right? So we are doing a multiple iteration out of that, in a same way, basically. So we can keep as many as headal layer, we can keep as many as,
Sunny Savita: encoder, just to keep more and more… just to get more and more essence from the data.
Sunny Savita: So, now over here, guys, we're talking about one single encoder. So, inside the one single encoder, what we have, we have feed-forward neural network, and we have a self-attention, right? So, if you will look into my scribble notes, so here also I kept the same thing. See, this is the same one.
Sunny Savita: This one. So, inside the one encoder, guys, what we will be having, we will be having the self-attention layer, as well as the feed-forward network layer, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, after that, what will happen? See, if you will scroll down more, you will get that. So, this is the encoder, and here is a decoder. So, whatever encoder is, whatever output is being generated by the encoder.
Sunny Savita: So we are passing that particular output to the decoder, okay? Now, from here to here, the output which we are passing to the decoder, so this decoder, actually, it is called the… this… sorry, this attention layer, it is called the cross attention layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Cross attention there. It is also a very important concept in the deep learning, and even inside the interview also, they might ask you what is a cross-attention? So, we'll discuss this cross-attention, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yes, number of encoder and decoder is a hyperparameter. Now, guys, if I will scroll down here, now how the input is being passed.
Sunny Savita: So, let's say this is the input, guys. So, I have a sentence, this is my sentence, J,
Sunny Savita: So is, and this, right? So, I have divided this particular data into the… into where into the tokens. Now, with respect to each and every token, I, I convert it into the… I converted each and every token into the vector. See, here they have written it.
Sunny Savita: Each word is embedded into the vector of 512 vector size. We will represent those vectors with the simple boxes, okay? So this is a vector, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, this particular vector, guys, it is being created using the word-to-back model, okay? See, they have written over here, word embedding model. So, this is a complete summarization of the transformer research paper.
Sunny Savita: transformer, research paper only, okay? Now, if I scroll down, here you will see how the data is being passed. So, this is what, this is my sentence.
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys, this is my sentence, which I converted into where? Into the tokens. Okay, the token is being converted into the embedding.
Sunny Savita: And that is being passed to the cell potential layer, okay? So, what will happen, guys? Inside the cell potential layer, now let me show you what operation will be performed inside the cell potential layer.
Sunny Savita: So, inside the self-attention layer, now see, this is the self-attention, as I already told you. You can read out all this thing, all this theoretical point and all, okay? I will provide you… I have provided you this link.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is happening inside the self-attenser? Let's understand over here. So, this is the… this is what… this is my word, guys. Okay, this is my word, this is my input.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This is a vector with respect to the input. So, I will initiate three weight matrices. One is going to be WQ, one is going to be… another is going to be WK, another is going to be WV. I'm going to be multiplying this X1 with the WQ, and X2 also with the WQ. So I will get this query vector.
Sunny Savita: I will multiply this X1 with this WQ, and this XQ again with a WQ, and I will get this particular vector.
Sunny Savita: I will multiply this X1 with a WV, this one, and X2 again with a WV, and I will be getting this vector. So I'm getting this Q, K, and V vector. So this is only called the QKB vector.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is this, why we are doing this thing? So, we'll understand all this thing in the next class, once I will draw each and every diagram over the blackboard, okay? So here, guys, you can see the diagram is already ready. I already created that. In the next class, guys, I will explain you. See, here you can see, I already prepared the diagram and all. I already simplified each and every step.
Sunny Savita: I'm just giving you this block so that you can brush up the concept whenever you are coming in the next class, right? So it won't feel that difficult one to all of you, right? So, here you can see, this is the all QKB metrics, QKB, like, vector I will get.
Sunny Savita: Now after that, guys, what will happen? See over here. So, this is the QKB. Now, I will multiply this Q value and K value. I will be getting this, okay? Q value and K value, I will be getting this value. Now, after that, what we are doing, guys, we are passing this thing from the softmax, okay?
Sunny Savita: We are passing this particular thing from the softmax after the multiplication.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we are passing this particular thing from the softmax. Okay, now after that, what will happen, guys?
Sunny Savita: After that only, see, over here, you can see, we are passing it from the softmax. So, softmax will provide me this particular value, this value. Now, here we have this V1 and V2. Now, this particular value only, we are going to be multiplied with this V1 and V2.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So the weight, basically, which I was talking about, the weight, basically, which I was talking about, so if you will check, guys, my notes, so here, over the notes, guys, I was talking about this particular weight, this one.
Sunny Savita: W1, W2, and W3, right? This one, W1, W2, and W3. So guys, this particular weights, we are getting in the same way, with this WQ metrics, WK metrics.
Sunny Savita: and WV metrics, okay? So we are going to be… convert our data, okay, this particular… we are going to be… multiply our vector with these three metrics. We are passing it through all the process, we are passing it from the softmax, and whatever one value is coming, whatever one value is coming, that is nothing, that is my weight, this one, actually. So I will show you, I will drive that, okay? I will drive in front of you.
Sunny Savita: With one example, so you will understand how to… how to get this weight value using this WQ, WK, and WV, which is called the
Sunny Savita: key, query, and vector, this value, KQV, okay? This KQV. Now, what is this softmax, guys? It is an activation function.
Sunny Savita: This Optimax is nothing, it is a activation function, okay? So yeah, this is all, basically, you can see inside the transformer. So once we will be getting the weight and all everything, see, this is the complete, process they have summarized in a single one.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, you can see, we can do it multiple times with respect to one single, token, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, attention, 0, attention 1, multiple times we can do it. It is called the multi-headed self-attention. If we are multiplying with a multiple query key and values, right? So, this is called the multi-headed attention, right? So, this is a summarization of it, means we can… we are passing our data into the one single weight metric, one single matrix, actually, and we are going to be multiplied… we are going to be multiplied
Sunny Savita: with a weight matrix, okay? So this is our input inside the single matrix, and this is our weight matrices, okay? And then this is going to be a final output.
Sunny Savita: So we'll understand this also, and after that, guys, you can see the other detail with respect to this, how this thing is happening and all. So everything they have mentioned inside, this particular blog, okay? So you can read it out, just to get some initial understanding, just to get some initial understanding of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: So you will be getting some initial understanding how the transformer is working.
Sunny Savita: And, basically, you can understand, at least, 50% of the transformer. Now, rest of the part, we can discuss inside the next class, okay? So I think within 2 to 3 classes, we are going… we can understand this, entire thing completely.
Sunny Savita: Now, I already given you this thing, if you will go and check with the Notion notes. So, over the Notion, basically, I have already given you all these links and all.
Sunny Savita: So, let me share this link in the chat itself, and even I will keep it in the folder also, okay? So, just a second, let me keep it inside the folder.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, for today, is it fine? Can we, start in the next class, now freshly, everything? And, we can decode this entire thing step by step, until you can just go through with it, okay?
Sunny Savita: Until you can just go through with it. And guys, just give me 2-3 more classes, you will understand everything about a transformer and all. And after that, guys, we'll move to the… our practical, we'll move to our… the main, chapter, like fine-tuning, RAG, and the different, different APIs and all. We'll more focus on the practical side, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let me export, this entire, links and all, okay? I'm providing you that, wait.
Sunny Savita: Yes, I can take the remaining thing in the next class. So, how was the session, guys? Did you find this useful?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Or… Just go through with it again.
Sunny Savita: Right? Just try to learn it from your end ones, or just do some self-learning, so your fear about this transformer will be away, and then in the next class, we can understand everything about it, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, just give me a moment, I'm going to create a new folder over here.
Sunny Savita: Clause 09.
Sunny Savita: 19th April.
Sunny Savita: Transformer.
Sunny Savita: intuition.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: transformer intuition. I'll keep my notes over here only, so just a second.
Sunny Savita: I'm going to be export here.
Sunny Savita: Okay, class 09, Notion Nodes. I'm just skipping it over here.
Sunny Savita: Let me put the date also. So, this is going to be 19th April.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I'm keeping the handwritten note also, so that you can… Care it with you.
Sunny Savita: Whenever you are revising the concept, just open it, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, here is what? Handwritten notes.
Sunny Savita: I think I need to keep it inside the different folder, just a second. This one.
Sunny Savita: So, Class 09, 19th April.
Sunny Savita: Handwritten.
Sunny Savita: notes, okay?
Sunny Savita: So I capped both, you can check out, from the GitHub only. I'm pushing all the changes over there.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second, I'm keeping it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I pushed the changes, now you can take it from the GitHub only directory.
Sunny Savita: So, just go through with this particular repository. I'm giving you the link inside the chat itself.
Sunny Savita: Here is the, here is the notes, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: You will get every Notion notes like this only.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Understood? Tell me yes or no. Did you get the notes? Just give me quick confirmation.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: White.
Sunny Savita: will understand, Sandeep, okay? Let it be right now. I will give you the… I will explain you freshly, okay? In the next class, we'll discuss that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Just leave it for the next class, Sandeep. We'll, again, I will show you this particular example.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, transformer, actually, it's a heavy concept, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: Transformer architecture will take care of it, because it is being trained on a very huge amount of data. Anyhow, it will, manage that, okay, with their learning capability.
Sunny Savita: Can you open the handwritten notes? Yes, I can open that. See, this is the handwritten notes.
Sunny Savita: It is showing error embedded code, right? So what you can do, guys, see, just a second…
Sunny Savita: Let me check. I think I just need to create… oh, no, maybe. It is fine now.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it is zero byte. Just a second, guys. Okay, again, I'm keeping it.
Sunny Savita: I wonder what happened, actually, when… until I'm not pressing on that yes and no na, it won't be, like, visible, just a sec.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, now it is coming.
Sunny Savita: So, I can edit again.
Sunny Savita: Notes updated.
Sunny Savita: Commit and push. Guys, now you can check, please. I think you will get it.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, it's coming.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine, guys. So, assignment solution and all, everything will be available in the resource, sorry, inside the GitHub, as well as over the platform itself, okay? So, whatever resources are missing, I'll check, I'll put it over there, but yeah, for the…
Sunny Savita: Guys, the central… as a centralized repository, please follow this GitHub repository. I'll update everything over here itself, okay? If, regarding… related to the project and all, I will create a separate repository. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Fine, so thank you guys, thank you, bye-bye, take care. If you don't have any doubt, you can drop off.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Unable to render code, if you're getting that, then you can download that particular file, and you can, open inside your local. See, here is a download option, this one.
Sunny Savita: If anyone is getting that unable to render code, render block error, just download that file, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Solution is not there, huh? Solution, I will upload, okay? Don't worry.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys, so in the next class, again, see, today we have set the base of the transformer, all the lines and all, self-attention, attention, everything, guys, we have discussed. Just revise all this thing once from your end, just do some self-study from your end.
Sunny Savita: And then, guys, in the next class, step by step, everything will learn again, okay? Fine. So, thank you, guys, bye-bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class. Thank you very much.
Sunny Savita: Sir, how many classes remains? Courses, like, for the 6th month, okay? So, one month is there, like, one month is, passed now, 5 months is there. If you're asking for the transformer, I think, 2 to 3 classes. So, maybe next weekend, or next… by next Sunday, we are going to be complete that, okay? Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine, guys. Thank you, bye, take care. If you have doubt, don't leave. I will take the doubt now. Thank you very much, guys.
Sunny Savita: Please raise the hand, I will take a doubt after 5 minutes, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, let's start with the doubt session. If you have any doubt, you can raise the hand, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Jyoti, what's your doubt?
Jyoti Gupta: Oh, yeah, bye, sir. So basically, whatever algorithms we are going through.
Jyoti Gupta: So, basically, during the implementation of Agentia, if I want to become a Gen AI or Agentia developer, so do I need to go through all these algorithms which are used in ML and DL? I mean, do I need to get a basic understanding, or I should be, I should do more hands-on, basically?
Jyoti Gupta: So, how it should be?
Sunny Savita: You should focus on the more hands-on, actually.
Jyoti Gupta: So basically, all algos will be used, like, in training the model, or any model transformation.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so we can… you can just understand the working of the transformer. To clear your fundamental, means how the LLM is being… means, on which model the LLM is being trained, what is the, like, core architecture of it, okay? And then you can focus on the, practical only, or the more hands-on, okay?
Jyoti Gupta: Actually, sir, I've already gone through the prequusites, now I've started going through your videos, but actually, since, I'm a data engineer, like, I'm into ETL and reporting.
Jyoti Gupta: So it's very difficult, it is getting very difficult for me to remember all the algorithms, which I have seen in my prerequisites.
Sunny Savita: No, no worries, ma'am. See, again, I'm saying, no need to learn that. See, I can give you one very good example. Let's say you are a data engineer, okay? You are dealing with a SQL.
Jyoti Gupta: Yup.
Sunny Savita: using the SQL. Now, in SQL, actually, we have so many concepts. Let's say one theorem comes, cap theorem.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so you are learning that CAMP theorem, you are understanding that CAMP theorem, but whenever you are performing the practical, right, you are just doing a practical now, right? You are just writing a SQL query and all.
Sunny Savita: So that theorem is good to clear your basics, to understand the fundamental and all, okay? How the thing was created on paper, then how it was, came into the market.
Sunny Savita: Okay, but…
Sunny Savita: For the real time, the project is only required. So if you're not able to recall all the things, it's fine, ma'am, to all of you, don't worry, okay?
Jyoti Gupta: But during interview, they will ask questions, right? At least basic ones.
Sunny Savita: During interview, they will ask, you can explain whatever you know. If you don't know, then you can simply say, I don't have much idea about this, because I, gone through with the partial theory and all, just overview of the architecture and all, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Then, if someone is asking more and more questions about it, then for the next interview, you can prepare better with all this question and all. Got it?
Jyoti Gupta: Oak.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
Jyoti Gupta: Oh, yeah.
Jyoti Gupta: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thanks.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next doubt is, Ruchi, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Gopal, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: I cannot hear you, Lucci. Please check with your microphone.
Ruchi S: Hi, is this audible now?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, is this… yeah, now you are audible.
Ruchi S: Okay.
Ruchi S: So I wanted to ask, like, why is the, like, when you were explaining that bank has a weight, and then it has… it is getting multiplied with the, other tokens also, like, when we are trying to calculate the representation of the bank.
Ruchi S: So, first of all, why the weights are getting multiplied with the other tokens?
Ruchi S: And how come, like, money and grows, they have a higher weightage that is getting multiplied.
Sunny Savita: We'll understand in the next class, ma'am, okay? Just keep it for the next session, this thing, okay?
Ruchi S: Okay, and, keeping, like, in the initial, research paper, there were, like, 6 encoders and decoders.
Ruchi S: So I understand, like, if you're adding more encoders or decoders, we are adding more… like, we are trying to make the model understand more contextual meaning, or add more understanding to it. So is there, like.
Ruchi S: like, I know it's a hyperparameter, and we're trying to maximize, and we are not trying to add on extra. So, what is, like, if we go overboard than 6, then is it, like, it doesn't work well, or it's, like, adding extra resources?
Ruchi S: That we should not be adding, because it's not that great, or something?
Sunny Savita: No, ma'am, again, they have compared with a different, different number, they find out the very good accuracy on the… over the sixth one, then that's why they have mentioned that 6th, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Okay.
Sunny Savita: It is an experimental thing.
Sunny Savita: You cannot say, okay, if it is a 6, then why not 7? If it is 7, then why not 8? It's not like that, ma'am. If you ever performed the fine-tuning… have you ever performed the hyperparameter tuning for any ML model, any DL model?
Ruchi S: No.
Ruchi S: So, yeah, I have, for the regression, the classification models, I've done the hyper, like, I have changed… With which algorithm?
Sunny Savita: So we have performed the hyperparameter, tell me.
Ruchi S: Okay, like other regression about kare, then it was around, this…
Ruchi S: The one that… L2 regularization, L1 regularization, like, a long time back I did.
Sunny Savita: No, no, not one, actually. Have you performed with any decision tree, random forest, or…
Ruchi S: Yeah, also decision-m.
Sunny Savita: So, they are actually, whenever you are writing a value of that, you are thinking that, okay, I need to take 8 trees, 10 trees, 15 trees, you are just picking the value, you are checking on which value, actually, like, on the overall side, right? On which value, actually, it is giving me an optimized number, the higher accuracy, basically, right? So, in the same way, they are performing this particular experiment on a broader level, actually.
Ruchi S: Oh, God.
Sunny Savita: This is the way of choosing the hyperparameter. Got it?
Ruchi S: Got it.
Ruchi S: And last one question, which is, like.
Ruchi S: I don't know if it makes sense to ask right now, but, like, when you gave that Apple example, how was it, like, the Word2Wec is able to understand that the context is different, and it is able to create a.
Sunny Savita: The fact is not able to understand that, ma'am. Okay, that algorithm will not understand. That the model will not understand. This, transform model can understand that, using this self-attention concept.
Ruchi S: Okay, okay, got it. I think then I heard wrong. Okay, yeah, that's all from my side.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank you, man.
Ruchi S: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next, doubt is Gopal, what's your daughter?
Gopal Singh: Yes, sir, yeah. So, my doubt is, sir, you take one example, like, money banks grow…
Gopal Singh: reverse bank flows, actually. Doubted, sir, wait as part. Like, here I'm seeing, like, sir, 1-1 token will generate. So, how means we are saying the more weightage of bank, actually.
Gopal Singh: In…
Sunny Savita: Actually, algorithm decide that. Just keep that example for the next class, okay? In next class, you will get a better understanding of it, right?
Gopal Singh: Oh, okay, okay, so then, fine. That's only a head out. Okay. Thank you, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Gopal is done. Now, Lakshmi, what's your doubt? Lakshmi, Masood, anyone is there, guys, go ahead.
Masood: Hello?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Masood, please go ahead.
Masood: Yeah, Masvidu.
Masood: So, actually, I'm going with the practical side for the last classes.
Masood: So, the question is, like, you have been, shared the API.
Masood: So, just want to know, like, how we can utilize, right? Because I can see that, in the paid version.
Masood: So… If I want to practice that on the model.
Sunny Savita: There is a free model also, no? You can configure that free model and check how does the response and all of the… that API, if you.
Masood: We're gonna use it.
Sunny Savita: your rack system, okay? Anywhere API, any application you created, just replace that LLM with this API LLM, okay?
Masood: I was, looking with the models, but it's…
Masood: Displaying in the document as a, price listed in the API.
Sunny Savita: I think free model is also there, just check once. I seen yesterday, basically.
Masood: If you don't mind, can I share my screen?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can share the screen. Just a second, I had a penalty.
Masood: This movie breakfast.
Masood: J attendant, or which prompt I'd like to pop up?
Sunny Savita: You can join as a panelist.
Masood: Alright, good.
Masood: Sharing the screen.
Sunny Savita: No, I cannot see.
Masood: No.
Masood: Once it is.
Masood: Can you see the screen, ma'am?
Sunny Savita: No, I cannot see.
Masood: No?
Sunny Savita: Mmm, yeah, I can see now.
Masood: Okay, so the browser, can you see my browser, huh?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, I can see that.
Masood: Yeah, so…
Masood: If you observed it, these are the list of models that are available, around 3 total miles, okay?
Masood: No.
Masood: If I go with the type, and if I select the frame.
Masood: I don't see any more external So.
Sunny Savita: Just check, just do one thing over.
Sunny Savita: documentation.
Sunny Savita: I think in the documentation they have mentioned, right, just go with the model, available models.
Sunny Savita: Left-hand side, no? Available model.
Sunny Savita: Fourth option.
Masood: Available, so…
Sunny Savita: or available models.
Masood: -Oh, okay.
Sunny Savita: See, yeah, Pariah mentioned free model, right? Just use this model ID and check whether you are able to access or not, okay?
Masood: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
Masood: So, this will be listed from the OpenAI itself? Or,
Masood: How I need to repeat those?
Sunny Savita: In Pyth, just check with their Python SDK, I think they mentioned how to load the model and all, okay?
Sunny Savita: and SDK is there on the left-hand side.
Masood: Have this one, right? Okay.
Sunny Savita: See here they are mentioned.
Masood: Okay, so when I… when I, run this one, right, let's assume that, I've been added,
Masood: on the requirement, as it needs your Python SDK.
Masood: And if I run this one, right, I'm getting this error.
Masood: Is that right, or…
Sunny Savita: Right, right, yeah, UBPIP install, and give this a name.
Sunny Savita: Mesh API, Python SDK.
Sunny Savita: If with PIP you are not… if UB with you are not able to install, then use with a pip… download with a pip only, okay? Maybe UB… in UP, it won't be available now, that's why you're getting this issue.
Masood: this one thing.
Sunny Savita: pip not found, pip is not there, so just create another virtual environment, and then use that virtual environment for this mesh API, okay?
Masood: Oh, okay.
Sunny Savita: No.
Masood: Got it. I'm… Sure.
Masood: So, what is the difference between this model and, I'll lie.
Masood: Related with this model.
Masood: model embedded 001. Do we have any information?
Sunny Savita: Which model? Sorry?
Masood: I was… took the other model.
Masood: It's been, not defined in our,
Masood: That's model iPhone emitted iPhone 001.
Masood: And then, I've been,
Masood: use… after that, I can use the Jim Nai, embedded 001. Is there any difference between the two models?
Sunny Savita: 001 is there. Where is the another model?
Masood: This one.
Sunny Savita: Same ito here, 001001, don't ito hai.
Masood: As a mother, too.
Sunny Savita: This is just a prefix, actually, I think you can use without this also.
Sunny Savita: But yeah, you could find out the various version of that embedding 001, like, OpenAI has released, now, small, big, medium, right? In a same way. So 001, or with any other name, right? It could be a different version of it, the extended version, actually. Got it?
Masood: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Masood: So, one question I have is, like, how we can learn the list of models that are available to particular classes, and how we need to go with the documentation.
Masood: Any…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you need to check out the documentation. Let's say you are looking for the Jiminy embedding model. You will have to check with the documentation. OpenAI-wise, OpenAI documentation. Open source model, so most of the open source model you will get over the Hugging Face, you can check out over there, okay?
Masood: Ultimately.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Masood: Kagan. Thank you so much, Salika.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, Mosul.
Masood: If I have any questions, I will be happy.
Sunny Savita: Sure, sure.
Sunny Savita: Your next stop is, Vijaya Suniv…
Lakshmi: I… Hi, Sunny, this is Lakshmi.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, please stay.
Lakshmi: My article, right?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you are audible.
Lakshmi: first of all, thank you, Sunny. Like, your sessions are very good, like, more informative, very good teaching.
Lakshmi: Really, it's very nice. Thank you for that. And I have a, like, a couple of questions, it's,
Lakshmi: Like, super easy things. Like, so, so, like, we have, like, encoding techniques, right? Whatever we done, one hard bag of words and IFDF, right?
Lakshmi: So, these tactics, we are, using these tactics, we perform some kind of, machine learning tasks using logistic regression and navy bias, right?
Lakshmi: So, in the same thing… in the same way, these techniques, top of these techniques, can we perform the other models of, like, machine learning and deep learning, right? Like, X-Boost, Random Parast…
Sunny Savita: Now, this model, ma'am, actually, it's a language model. Those models are the different one. It is for the classification and the regression task, but these are the language models, which can be used over the unstructured data, that is, like, text data, or other type of data, actually, okay?
Lakshmi: Yeah, so logistic regression and Navibase, also, like, machine learning models, right? Last time.
Sunny Savita: Those are the machine learning models, but they had some limitation, actually. They can be used on… over the structured data, where we just have the categorical and the numerical value, that's it.
Sunny Savita: For the unstructured data, like the real-time data, like natural language, images, audios, we'll have to use this model, the transform-based model, computer vision-based model, okay?
Lakshmi: Oh, okay. Okay, some of the models are used, top of this data, right? Not all machine learning models.
Sunny Savita: Yes, correct.
Lakshmi: Okay, so this logistic regression everywhere is, like, the classification performance we done, so that's why we are using some of the machine learning models.
Lakshmi: Not everything, not all deep learning and machine learning, right?
Sunny Savita: Correct.
Sunny Savita: Yes, ma'am.
Lakshmi: So… so what are more models use, these techniques? Like, per my understanding, I'm asking.
Lakshmi: Oh.
Sunny Savita: This… which technique? Transformer technique?
Lakshmi: No, no, no. So, these encoding techniques, we have performed, like, in assignment last time, largest aggregation and Navibias, out of all these, techniques, top of.
Sunny Savita: Whenever we have to… see, whenever we have to convert our data into the numbers, right?
Sunny Savita: For any sort of a training, right?
Sunny Savita: We use this encoding or embedding. So earlier, actually, ma'am, in our older days, we used to use this encoding technique, when this neural network and all other technique was not mature, okay, in 2000.
Lakshmi: 2010.
Sunny Savita: around. Then the neural network-based technique came, embedding. We have started using the word 2BAC and all. Then this contextual embedding, this transform-based embedding came. We are using that. Now, we can convert the data into the numbers, and we can feed it to the model for the learning.
Sunny Savita: For on sort of a… any sort of a task, right? So, earlier we were having the encoding model, but DFIDF, or what bag of words and all. So, we were converting our data into the numbers, and we were giving to the logistic regression, we were giving to the name bias algorithm, okay, the older one, right? Earlier, basically. Then we have got the advanced technique, so Bartubeck and all, we were using that, and
Sunny Savita: The data, basically, we are providing to the R&LSTM model. Okay, even.
Lakshmi: that particular data.
Sunny Savita: is being used inside the transformer also. And then, basically, after that only, we are learning the contextual embedding, okay? Then nowadays, we have the transformer technique, so if we are passing any sort of a data to the transformer model, we are able to generate the textual, contextual embedding, the dynamic embedding.
Lakshmi: Yeah, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Now we can utilize anywhere, even for the RAC system and all, or if you are going to be, teach to our model, if the model is being learned on some tasks, okay, so same process is happening, inside the architecture itself. It's going to be converted into the numbers, and then the further learning is happening on top of the data.
Lakshmi: Oh, yeah, yeah, actually, I got it.
Sunny Savita: evolution, actually, of the AI, right?
Lakshmi: Oh.
Lakshmi: Yeah, the other thing is, like, we are, talking about the embedding models, whatever, like, the Word dope back, the classification.
Lakshmi: model. So, these models are really, if we want to, like, the Voto back, whatever the other one, the SOTA models, if we really want to, some kind of models, if we want to customize it, then we can, like, train ourselves with our own data and.
Sunny Savita: Stand up.
Lakshmi: parapetization we can do. So, these models, right? And the transformer technique-based models, like the Google and OpenAA and the… whatever, the Hugging Face, these models are, like, already trained by some kind of data, right? Like, XYZ data.
Lakshmi: So, these are already trained, then we are taking these kind of models, whatever the free or paid models, then we are
Lakshmi: So, we are doing some kind of performance. So, what exactly why we are using these models? Already trying. So, we are using… and then how… so, how we are using the… for what… for what purpose we are using on this, like,
Lakshmi: Good.
Sunny Savita: transformer-based model, like, all the latest LLM and all, we are using for the content generation, actually, ma'am. Okay, it's a generative model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Lakshmi: Just, we are taking these models, and we are checking, like, how it is working, that's right.
Sunny Savita: No, ma'am, see, it is a generative model. What I'm saying? It is a generative model, okay?
Lakshmi: Oh, cute.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, just wait for a couple of more days.
Lakshmi: The more picture will be pretier.
Sunny Savita: Don't know.
Lakshmi: Yeah, yeah. These models now, whatever it is available, all these, Aging Face and Google GPT and all, these models, really, this… we are, like, working only for the practice purpose, or in the real-time world, where we have working.
Sunny Savita: In the real time also, we are using the same word.
Lakshmi: They're using according to their use cases, right?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes. In a real world also, we are using those models only.
Lakshmi: Oh, okay, okay. That's great, Sunny. Thank you so much. So, be patient to telling all the things. And actually, I… regarding some kind of help, I… I dropped you one mail, so whenever you are free and look there, we'll talk, really, if you are free, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I think I checked that. I'll give you the reply, okay?
Lakshmi: Yes, thank you so much, Sunny. I really…
Sunny Savita: map.
Lakshmi: Thank you, have a good day.
Sunny Savita: Good day, membrane. Take care.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Lakshmi is done now.
Vijay Choudhari: Listen, maybe you do, yeah.
Vijay Choudhari: Hello, Sonny, can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys. Yeah, yeah, Vijay, please go ahead.
Vijay Choudhari: Yes, thanks for your sessions. You are very good.
Vijay Choudhari: So, my question is something different. I have some use case in my mind which I want to develop for my company. The use case is, you may have heard about the USC, right? UNDs are competing.
Vijay Choudhari: There might be some developing earlier Microsoft Access technologies or some Excel-based uses.
Vijay Choudhari: So, our operations team is creating such kind of uses for many years.
Vijay Choudhari: And right now, our challenge is there are, all these uses have their details on the SharePoint, one of our SharePoint.
Vijay Choudhari: And…
Vijay Choudhari: The unique ID to identify this UC ID for each… in a UEC, there will be a UEC ID by which you can identify that particular UC uniquely.
Vijay Choudhari: So, this data is on the SharePoint, and there is other, details about this, UC, like, purpose of that UC, a name and type of input file, this use is taking name and type of output files is this UC generating. Also, what is the input path, output path is using? AD groups for that path.
Vijay Choudhari: Also, if it is connecting to other external applications for those external applications, which is connecting and collecting the input data, like if it is using an SQL queries, and what are the operations point of contacts, what are the primary users, secondary users, all these many details are there.
Vijay Choudhari: So, now, I want to then create something which can summarize about if operations user asks for the USCID, given the USCID, and I want to collect or summarize all the details that are present on the sharehold importance details.
Vijay Choudhari: How can I actually go out on this use case, and how can I…
Vijay Choudhari: utilize the knowledge, whatever I'm getting. Can you please suggest on that front?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what you can do…
Sunny Savita: what I can suggest to you, basically.
Sunny Savita: See, this kind of use case, basically, it can build on top of the LLM, okay, using the LLM itself.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Right? So, first of all, you will have to understand about your data source, right? That is a SharePoint. So, your company basically having, what I can say, basically, the UC, right? You were saying.
Vijay Choudhari: computing, even.
Sunny Savita: user…
Vijay Choudhari: to listen.
Sunny Savita: User computing, right? And these are stored in the SharePoint.
Vijay Choudhari: Yeah, so all these details, all these details about the DUC,
Vijay Choudhari: Those are on the SharePoints in different folders about, operations. You already maintained that details there on the SharePoint.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, got it. So, you have a unique ID regarding each one of them, right?
Vijay Choudhari: Yes, Lucia.
Sunny Savita: So, yeah, that is going to be your input files, right?
Vijay Choudhari: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: you want some output file, basically, and you wanted to, like, some have external connection, like SQL APIs and all.
Vijay Choudhari: Yeah, actually, that EUC is using that. Whatever the details they have mentioned, the operations has already provided those details in few of the many documents. There are many types of documents, like, when I observed there are many documents, like, some of them are Excel documents, some of them are…
Vijay Choudhari: text files, some of them are PDF files, they are maintained there, where they are provided all these details, and if that UC is connected.
Sunny Savita: karna aapko.
Vijay Choudhari: Huh, whatever the hell.
Sunny Savita: Allah, quick summary chaye, right?
Vijay Choudhari: UAT or production ke liye.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Vijay Choudhari: So everybody's using it.
Sunny Savita: agar user enter kartai jo bhi ID, usa related data retrieve karo, usko summarize kar do.
Sunny Savita: toh. Take care.
Sunny Savita: MCP banaki bhikersaktiho.
Vijay Choudhari: CP.
Sunny Savita: tools banalu ala galag, MCP sus ko expose karo, and apna jubi agent flow banarai us ka access deadun ko, ti ka hai. SharePoint ka data, jobhi tools seh aap access karna chhatya wo karlega.
Sunny Savita: wo us specific IDC wo data extract karke, wo LLM aapko summarize karke dedega. To aap doh chijay use karu, ek reg cap length, or ek MCP, okay?
Vijay Choudhari: Can you repeat? Can you repeat? I'm noting it down.
Vijay Choudhari: Langrum.
Sunny Savita: I'm, I'm saying you can use this, you can use the rack concept here. Second is the line graph, explore Langraph, how to utilize inside this use case, and MCP also, okay?
Vijay Choudhari: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Let's go.
Sunny Savita: Noted.
Vijay Choudhari: Thank you. Maybe, maybe what I will do, I will drop an email to you. Whenever you get the time, maybe you can provide me the more details.
Sunny Savita: That is fine, sir, but at least try out for.
Vijay Choudhari: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I will start, I will start, looking into this, whatever.
Sunny Savita: If you're dropping me an email, that's fine, but if you will give the same ID to the Cloud code, right, to Claude, it will quickly develop for you, immediately, basically. The POC and all, easily, you can do. Just try out with the Claude ones, okay?
Vijay Choudhari: Okay, okay, thank you.
Vijay Choudhari: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Sunil, please go ahead with the doubt.
sunil: Hello. Thank you, Sunny. So, Sunny, I had a question regarding this QKV. I think that part I did not understand very well. Maybe you will explain later also.
Sunny Savita: evalua, next up on session, we'll discuss inside the next session, okay? Today, just go with the overview, just keep it for one more session.
Sunny Savita: Miss, just hold it for one more session. The next session, I can explain you, then you can ask the data related to that. Got it?
sunil: Okay. I have a few, few, few more questions.
Sunny Savita: That is a little deep concept, actually. It will not catch in a single go. I will have to give you a couple of more examples. Got it?
sunil: Good to you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
sunil: Sure, yeah, because even I also realized this topic is a little tricky.
sunil: And, I see here.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, it's a tricky, sir. See, no one explained this topic, only one… few people only explained this topic.
Sunny Savita: In a good way, and even in none of the class guys, in none of the class, people will touch this topic in a live class, actually, because it is a difficult one. People just will show you the API call.
Sunny Savita: And they'll just show you basic RAG agents and all that's it, and they will say, okay, now the generative AI completed. No one will touch this kind of topic, sir, okay?
sunil: Actually, yeah, so now I have a follow-up question on that only. Since, when I'm working in, like, corporate and,
sunil: Everything is moving on AI, and expectation is that, like, the.
sunil: Even I'm not a technical person, I'm a product manager. The question is that, like, I should come up with a good idea. When I have ideas, I understand
sunil: In the previous, topic which we discussed, where you suggest, like, RAG MCP.
sunil: Those… but the problems count…
sunil: like, corporate infrastructure, like, whatever we have and what we are allowed. But here, second thing is, like, prototyping. We can do through cloud, or we can do with
sunil: other tool.
sunil: This type of knowledge seems like what we're learning here.
sunil: I see if we have detailed knowledge, then we can think better way.
sunil: Then we can think a better way, to get the better idea.
sunil: Now, even I'm working, working on, like, one idea, which… but…
sunil: I do not want to access any of my companies.
sunil: some antivirus structure. Are there any way where I can mark, let's say, a particular API?
sunil: And, I have get all that, I mean, whatever I wanted to do, I have done through LLM. KLL information. Now I want to convert
sunil: the same structure as per mine.
sunil: API.
sunil: So, are there any way, like, we can just mock my API structure, and then LLM can understand? That part, when I was trying to
sunil: to chat GPT, that was not…
sunil: write MN not working for him.
Sunny Savita: You are saying you have created your own API on the cell phone?
sunil: No, no, no, no, no, let's say,
sunil: Okay, let me give you a simple example.
sunil: We are reading a mail, and that mail customers send, like, with very complex product requirements, but they use a natural language. They do not give technical name of the product, like, the product ID,
sunil: Just take an example of that MacBook, which can have Intel, which can have ARM, 6664.
sunil: Technical names are different, but they're generally talking that keyword performance they want. And then there's a particular bomb. It's a complex bomb, in terms of QB and all.
sunil: No.
sunil: With that mail, I know this is my data, martial data, where I have to find my bomb.
sunil: But what customer is scheme? Do I have… Same thing in my… Much later, or not.
sunil: So, from the mail, I want to first understand what customer is asking. Okay, this is something they are asking. Then, based on that, I want to see if
sunil: same product I have in my catalog, with the same BOM and same configuration.
sunil: a… The thing is that right now you cannot use, obviously, the API of
sunil: our database, or whatever, like, macro data we have, we cannot use, because Claudia and all the… it's, like, infrastructure and observation issues, but if I want to mock, I just want to do a prototype.
sunil: So, how we can prototype my API structure.
sunil: Or you can say schema off in my API.
sunil: So that LLM can understand. I need to understand in this schema, and then it can pass me its adjacent
sunil: output.
sunil: Okay, if this is…
Sunny Savita: Sorry, what you said, what you said at the end, can you please come again?
sunil: I said, LLM can understand that mail, and then…
sunil: it can see my API schema, and then say, okay, what is being asked?
sunil: then it gives me answer in that schema version, let's say. It matches, okay, this is the product, this is the sub-product, this is the next sub-product, sub-product, the hierarchy.
sunil: So… the API schema, how can I… use in my…
sunil: It's a program or whatever I'm writing.
sunil: Because I am not going to use excess.
sunil: virtual system.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
sunil: So, I just want… I thought if I.
Sunny Savita: API schema structure, so… See what you can do here.
Sunny Savita: The schema means, basically, JSON, right? You are asking. Can you do one thing? Can you describe this to my male, actually?
sunil: Difficulty, actually.
sunil: I can see some screenshots.
sunil: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Just drop, actually, because it will take more time to understand.
Sunny Savita: Okay, just, just let me know. Okay, Sunil?
sunil: Sure, sure, sure, sure. Thank you, Henry.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Sish, what's your doubt?
Ashish Jain: Hi, Sunny, can you hear me?
Ashish Jain: Hello.
Ashish Jain: Sunny, can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I can hear you.
Ashish Jain: Yeah. Yeah, Sunny, actually, I have an interview coming up.
Sunny Savita: No.
Ashish Jain: The interview is regarding.
Ashish Jain: like, AI, AI, like, AI data, like, it is around the data, data architecture, around AI, right?
Ashish Jain: They are asking for, like, LLMs, and, RAG.
Ashish Jain: use of AI.
Ashish Jain: And I'm like, I'm getting started, I'm just getting started with you, and I'm learning with you, right? It will take 6 months. So, is there any video that you can suggest, or some material that I can look in, right? My interview is on Thursday, that can give me enough confidence that I can at least appear for the interview, and…
Ashish Jain: In a proper manner.
Sunny Savita: I have a playlist on, rag and all that, right? You can check out that.
Ashish Jain: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, you can check out those YouTube playlists, it is there.
Sunny Savita: Order?
Ashish Jain: Okay. Okay, sure, I'll look into it.
Sunny Savita: You can complete from there until, and then you can appear in the interview.
Sunny Savita: And then rest of the thing we'll learn in the class itself, okay? Don't worry.
Ashish Jain: Sure. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Asis is done now. Biju Mohan, what's your doubt?
Baiju Mohan: Hi, hi, Sunny. Hello, sorry, I was on mute.
Baiju Mohan: is, regarding the self-attention you thought today.
Baiju Mohan: So, based on the class, what I understood is it is reading based on the input text, right? It is, finding the relationship between the words, and,
Baiju Mohan: Group the words, such as apple as a company, and apple as a fruit.
Baiju Mohan: But what if my output is not part of the input word? I want some other output. Then how it will work?
Sunny Savita: Some other output means what?
Baiju Mohan: The answer I'm looking for is not in the input I'm providing. I'm looking for some other answer. In that case, we just search some other database and find it out.
Sunny Savita: No, with respect to what you are asking, actually.
Baiju Mohan: with respect to the self, attention, I'm asking.
Baiju Mohan: So, the self-attention only related to the input words, what we are giving, or related to the broad vocabulary.
Sunny Savita: Sir, we provide lots of lot data to the transformer model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, you know… how… on how much data the GPT have been trained.
Baiju Mohan: Yeah, on daily basis, yes.
Sunny Savita: 40TB of data, 40TB of data.
Baiju Mohan: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so attention… whatever I've shown you, it is just the basic concept, means, like, why is the attention is, like, going through with the, sentence, okay? But whenever we train a model in a real time, we train on a very huge amount of data.
Sunny Savita: So that's why it is able to answer everything in every language, with every sort of a context, even though that verse has not been seen earlier, but it will try to understand a context behind the other words and all, and will try to generate a response, actually. Got it?
Baiju Mohan: Okay, you've got it, got it. Yes, I responded by the feedback, yeah. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so we train… we train that model on a very huge amount of data, so that it can understand the meaning of the other word also, which it hasn't seen, okay?
Baiju Mohan: Okay, okay, okay, now I got it. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so next out is, SG, please go ahead.
S G: Hi, Sunil. First of all, thank you so much for these sessions. Today is my first session, so just now I got to know about this cohort, and even in the first session, I was able to understand what you were saying, and I like the way you keep on repeating the concepts, because then it
S G: gets… it strengthens in the memory, right? So, thank you so much for that. And the questions that I have… so, these are very…
S G: kind of silly, but the basic questions that I have. So, first thing is, so people are talking about the assignments, and you're also talking about the solutions, right? So, where can I find these solutions, the assignments, and the things that we need to do after every class?
Sunny Savita: solution, basically, you will get, you know, over the GitHub only, okay? So far, I haven't uploaded. I'll upload that, okay?
S G: And what about the questions? So, I'm checking the folders of the previous classes. So, in some of the folders, I'm seeing the IPYNB files and all these notebooks. So, are these the questions, or they are the solutions?
S G: What are they?
Sunny Savita: No, ma'am, it's very simple to understand the Gateway structure, see?
Sunny Savita: This is the GitHub, right?
S G: Yes.
Sunny Savita: This is the GitHub repository.
Sunny Savita: So this is the class…
Sunny Savita: Okay, now inside the class, whatever I have explained, so we have a handwritten notes.
Sunny Savita: Okay, if I'm sharing anything, so we have the Notion also, Notion notes. And if I'm doing any practical, so related to that, you will find out the IPYNB also. Got it? As simple as that. Now, if I'm giving any assignments, for that, we have a separate folder, Assignment01C. This is the one of the assignments.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, as I will move further now, with more the more practical concept and all, I will give as much as assignment. Now, with this transformer, what assignment I can give? So, that's why I haven't given SE assignment today, okay? So, once I will move further with other, techniques, like fine-tuning rag and all, okay, so we'll add more and more assignment there, got it?
S G: Okay, so basically now if I have to go back and start from the first class, I will open each and every class lectures, and I will see your handwritten notes, and I will see that recording in, like.
Sunny Savita: Correct, ma'am, correct.
S G: Just…
Sunny Savita: See, if you have gone through with this, see, this is the course, dashboard, right? This one.
Sunny Savita: So, if you have opened that, it's a live class section, you will get all the recordings, right? Let's say you wanted to start from the very first session. So, this was the induction session, you can skip that.
Sunny Savita: Even you can skip this also. You can start from here, from day 3, right? So just check out with the introduction and all. From here, I took that, then tax-free processing, encoding, embedding.
Sunny Savita: then practical of it, then again, a one-doubt session I took in between, then custom model training, okay, I'll change this, name, then, then other, the practical and all, sorry, other technical session, the practical, okay? So I'm maintaining one notice board also, you will, once you will check out with the GitHub now.
Sunny Savita: See, here inside the third class itself.
Sunny Savita: I think here itself I mentioned that inside the notion. So this is the first notion. See, here you will get that.
Sunny Savita: this, notice board, okay? So just go through with this notice board and check out all the topics and all I've mentioned over there as well. Got it?
S G: Okay, got it, yeah. And in all the folders where I… where you showed that notebooks, the PYNB files, so that is just for the practice purpose, I can copy that code and.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
S G: Yes, ma'am.
Sunny Savita: Correct, ma'am, right, yeah.
S G: And the other question is, I know that you keep on asking these yes-no questions throughout the session, right? So, where do you expect the answer? So, there is one thing, which is webinar chat on the Zoom side, and then there is one.
Sunny Savita: See, actually, in the class, I am not dedicatedly explaining the question, I'm not picking the doubt, okay? So, I'm randomly picking the messages from the chat itself.
Sunny Savita: But, if you wanted to ask your doubt, any sort of a doubt, you can ask in a doubt session, like this only, okay?
S G: Yeah, but when you say, okay, are you understanding me, yes or no, something like that, so do you.
Sunny Savita: There you can put.
S G: Amster, or is it just a rhetoric?
Sunny Savita: Chat section, ma'am, okay?
S G: chat section on the learn.crush Academy.
Sunny Savita: No, no, chat here, no Zoom chat.
S G: The webinar chat, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Oh, webinar chat.
S G: I cannot see anybody else's question, because I only.
Sunny Savita: No, no, no, that setting is not being done, me, so you can not see anyone's question. If I'm writing anything, then only you can see, okay?
S G: I see, okay, then I keep on responding here. Okay, perfect.
Sunny Savita: Aww.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, ma'am, bye.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next doubt is… as she's time…
Sunny Savita: Surendra, do you have any doubt?
Surendhar: Yes, Annie. Thanks for the enabling.
Surendhar: Sunny, one basic thing, I'm a bit confusing on this,
Surendhar: So, today, when we are talking about the transformer, right, and as part of that, we talked about the GBT model, so the OpenAI will do the initial pre-train, the model, right? Then they will publish it.
Surendhar: So, on… also, we'll keep training based on our prompt and, based on these things, right? We'll keep training it. So, if that's correct, let me take an example, like, Copilot. Now, the Copilot got the subscription to all the corporates. Let's assume one healthcare client and one, one…
Surendhar: financial client. Both I took the subscription from the co-pilot, and both the…
Surendhar: start using it. Let's assume, in my healthcare client, I'm the employee, I use some search which is specifically related to my client, okay? Maybe kind of sensitive information. So now, that scopilot got trained based on my prompt, which I given based on the my client information.
Surendhar: Right? And then tomorrow, another financial client, or some XYZ client, when he's trying to expect some answer from the LLM,
Surendhar: Will that… Copilot, will use or utilize the training which he got from the My Healthcare client.
Surendhar: information or not. Or it's only respond based on the initial pre-trained
Surendhar: Now, I understand, pre-trained might be, which OpenA done, might be a generic one. It may not be, like, sensitive data, maybe just based on the general, it might be trained. But when, based on the prompt, when it's learning, there's a chance that the employees or the corporate, they may give their personal or sensitive information as well.
Surendhar: Right?
Surendhar: So, if it get trained on that, right? So, the other competitors or other companies, when they're seeking the output from the co-pilot, there's a possibility that this
Surendhar: this… based on the prompt, whatever it is God trained, that may get messed up with them, right?
Surendhar: How to understand this? How should I break this? I know there could be some, segregation, but how this… how should I understand this?
Sunny Savita: See, sir, first of all, this co-pilot, any LLM model, is not being trained on every kind of data.
Sunny Savita: It is not trained on your personal client data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Let's say you are working for an EX budget client. This model is not trained for that.
Sunny Savita: Right? So nowadays, what this, Claude or this co-pilot is doing, they are giving an option for the plugins, actually. They are giving you the option for creating your own MCP server, and then you can connect it with the co-pilots.
Sunny Savita: To providing it the… to provide the external information.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right? So you can create those plugins, you can create those skills, artifacts, you can create those MCP and all, and you can connect with a co-pilot for giving the information about your data, okay? This is the first thing.
Sunny Savita: Now, the second thing, basically, if you're providing your data to the LLM, to the co-pilot, to the cloud chat GPT, your client-specific data, then definitely it will take that data. It is giving you the disclaimer, if you're providing any data to the chat GPT, even it is mentioning in the terms and conditions, that data will be used for the training.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So there is a two thing, basically. What you can do. The first thing, you can host your own LLM on your own infrastructure.
Sunny Savita: So, if you're a big organization, you have billions of revenue, right? Then you can manage that. You can create your own infrastructure, and you can give that particular model to use inside your, basically, company itself, right? The second thing, what you can do.
Sunny Savita: Basically, you can use the managed services. Managed services like, you can use the Azure Cloud Foundry, AWS Bedrock and all. So, they will keep you… they will give you guarantee to keep your data secure. They will create a specific BPC for you. Your data will not go out to any OpenAI server or anywhere. The data will keep, till the, this cloud… this is the cloud only, right? AWS Cloud or Azure Cloud
Sunny Savita: not only. They will not, like, reveal your data to anyone.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, right?
Sunny Savita: And so, like this, basically, you can handle this situation, okay?
Surendhar: So, the train which is happening based on the prompt can keep it private, or can keep it specific to that customer, or that… their specific level.
Sunny Savita: What is the meaning of it?
Surendhar: No, the initial pre-train will… done by the LLM developer, or.
Sunny Savita: Initial pre-train, basically, it happened on the large dataset, on the internet-scale dataset. Not any specific dataset. Later on, they performed the supervised tuning of the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, on some question, answer, and all.
Sunny Savita: Right? Then they do the preference alignment of the model. Then only this chat GPT kind of system, like, they prepare… they created, okay? Now, you are saying on your data set, whatever prompt you are giving to the chat GPT, to the cloud, if you are showing your data to the client data to the cloud or chat GPT, that data would be used for the training? Yes, it would be used. They are mentioning in the terms and conditions.
Sunny Savita: Whatever you will provide to us, we'll use that data for the further training, for the further… for the further tuning of the model, okay? So in the next release, basically, you will be getting an updated knowledge of the model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Surendhar: Okay, got it. So then basically, with the terms and conditions, the… the…
Surendhar: Private data or sensitive data might… Good.
Surendhar: expose.
Sunny Savita: Expose. Company…
Surendhar: Well, it's getting trained.
Sunny Savita: Company only classify the data. It's a rad data, yellow data, and all. If it is a rad data, you cannot provide to any co-pilot that, okay? If they will court you, they will fire you immediately.
Surendhar: Got it.
Sunny Savita: They will give you the specific environment for that, okay? Use in this environment only. That's it.
Surendhar: Okay, got it, Sunny. I think I'm good.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Surrender is done.
Sunny Savita: Now, Vijay, Devanjan… Bankert, guys, anyone is there, please go ahead.
Venkat Sai: ISO.
Venkat Sai: When cut here.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Venkat, please go ahead.
Venkat Sai: Sir, I have any suggestion regarding an automation task I have at, office.
Venkat Sai: I'll just share my screen once, just to… Can I?
Sunny Savita: Okay, yeah, you can share the screen, wait.
Venkat Sai: Pretty cool.
Venkat Sai: Got it, sir.
Venkat Sai: Hello?
Sunny Savita: Yes, you can share the screen now.
Venkat Sai: Yes, sir.
Venkat Sai: So, for my task, I have,
Venkat Sai: one OEM spec, actually. This will have all the features from the OEM.
Sunny Savita: Sweet.
Venkat Sai: Last year, I had this version VEP 1.0.
Venkat Sai: And for that, we manually created a list of features from this spec.
Venkat Sai: So, feature 1, feature 2, so on, so.
Venkat Sai: And, with this, we create Jira tickets for each and every feature to implement further.
Venkat Sai: So, this is the context set here.
Venkat Sai: Nope.
Venkat Sai: We got, version 2.0 spec, and we need to create the feature table again.
Venkat Sai: Now, we don't want to do it manually like we have done previously.
Venkat Sai: Now, some LLM or something we need to implement here, and so that that will generate this feature list.
Venkat Sai: And, now that we have two tables, 2.0 and 1.0 feature table.
Venkat Sai: So, this difference should be taken.
Venkat Sai: And, new table will be created.
Venkat Sai: Live with the change, change, changelist.
Venkat Sai: Changelist of 2.0.
Venkat Sai: So… Based on this, new Jira tickets should be, assigned for each and every feature.
Venkat Sai: So, this is my task, sir. Could you please provide an, some…
Venkat Sai: flow chart, so that I can try, searching about it, and try to do it as fast.
Sunny Savita: the difference table you are creating, right? Then what you will do with that table?
Venkat Sai: this changelist different stable. So, for each feature in this, I will create a Jira ticket.
Venkat Sai: I am a…
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So what I'm… what I'm understanding, basically, you have a specific document, right?
Sunny Savita: Yeah. And you are going to be manually creating a feature out of it.
Sunny Savita: Feature 1, Feature 2, and all.
Sunny Savita: And then you're creating a Jira ticket manually for each feature, is it?
Venkat Sai: Right, sir. Previously was done.
Sunny Savita: You know, problem 2, basically, that is the 2.0, let's suppose, you've got a new specif- a new specification, right? You need to be add new feature list, but they don't want to do it manually work again, correct?
Venkat Sai: They're super, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So what they want now, they want used to LLM, or AI capability, so that automatically the feature is going to be created, and the Jira ticket is being generated.
Venkat Sai: Yeah, on the new features that have been added from the previous one.
Sunny Savita: Let's say in the version 1, you have added the login, sign-up dashboard. Now, inside the version 2, you are adding the payment analytics, something like that. So, in the output, basically, you want that payment analytics zero ticket only, correct?
Venkat Sai: Yes, sir. Only 3 and 4 here, newly added.
Sunny Savita: So how you can solve this thing? See, first, you need to read the specification, the version 2.0. Got it? You have to generate the feature list automatically, and then compare with V1.
Sunny Savita: Right, sure. Okay. Then, create a new feature list, remove the feature, remove the feature, this one, means, keep the new feature only, the change feature, okay? And create the Jira ticket. Now, how basically this thing could be happened?
Sunny Savita: So,
Sunny Savita: the flowchart is very simple for that. Actually, here, everything you can, play with this prompt only, okay? You can orchestrate this entire pipeline with the line graph.
Sunny Savita: And you can put the specific prompt, right? What you can do, you can extract the data, you can parse this data.
Sunny Savita: You can parse the data from B2.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then, what you will do, you will give the prompt to the LLM, along with the data, to create a feature. Okay, you will give a very detailed prompt, right?
Sunny Savita: you will compare this table with the version 1 table, okay? So, inside the prompt only, you will mention that, and use one good model over here, either GPT or Claude, right? So, then what you will do…
Venkat Sai: Here, sorry to interrupt.
Venkat Sai: So, in office environment, it is a highly confidential environment, right? It's highly secured.
Venkat Sai: So, we'll be using mostly offline, or, some models which are…
Sunny Savita: Ask them, ask them to provide a model, okay? They will provide you the model API, ask them to provide a GPT or cloud model, so they will purchase it, purchase, they will configure it over the Cloud Foundry.
Sunny Savita: Or, maybe AWS Bedrock, okay, they will only provide with a model access. Got it? So model… LLM should not be your problem, actually. LLM should be the company's problem.
Venkat Sai: Okay, also, my task involves, like, I should be using a Python script or something.
Sunny Savita: Python script, you can use the Python script, as I told you. Create this solution in the Python, complete in the Python only, use the Langraph framework for this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Langra framework is very easy to use, and it is a very, basically, a very… very… you will get a very low-level authority over the application. You can divide every sort of a task into different, different notes, and you can orchestrate in whatever way you want it to do, right? So here…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, use the Alangra framework, use the LLM capability, use the very good prompting.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And then, like, it is not a big deal, to generate the, this Jira ticket out of this feature, actually. Okay? So you can orchestrate this entire pipeline with the line graph. Got it?
Venkat Sai: Okay, so…
Sunny Savita: I already created one playlist over my YouTube, if you wanted to check that, just to brush up your concept, you can check out over there. Got it?
Venkat Sai: Your police name, sir, if you're.
Sunny Savita: Just write Sunny Savitar Langraf, you will get that, okay?
Venkat Sai: Oh, okay, I'm sure.
Venkat Sai: Thanks a lot, sir.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, sir. Okay.
Debanjan Mani: Hello.
Sunny Savita: Just a second… yeah, Devanjal, please go ahead.
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, can I share my screen?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can share.
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, hello, so I'm sharing my screen, shoot.
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, so actually, I have been, I've been revising the, fourth April class, And, okay.
Sunny Savita: when's happening.
Debanjan Mani: happening in there is, when I'm trying to install the requirements, I'm getting errors, so I just want to know if you've got any suggestions.
Sunny Savita: Will you run it?
Debanjan Mani: Nope.
Sunny Savita: Alright, sir, UB can't mention karega, darapne pip install lekhaw wire. Where is UB there?
Debanjan Mani: Okay, just trying to just choosing people.
Sunny Savita: Okay, wait, are you not… are you not following the classes?
Debanjan Mani: I could not follow the last week's class. I, followed 4th and 5th April class, after that.
Sunny Savita: test commands, this all the commands I've shown in my, I think, first class itself.
Debanjan Mani: Okay, I must look forward to…
Sunny Savita: OB installation is shown in the first class only, correct?
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, you really enjoy it.
Sunny Savita: And it has been around 1 month, right? We started on 15th of March, and it is 19th of March now.
Sunny Savita: If you're not listening to this small, small thing, then how you will, like, build the entire project and all? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Now, first of all, show me which Python version you are going to create this virtual environment.
Sunny Savita: Right, Python over here.
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, the first Python version I used was.
Sunny Savita: Just write Python, hit enter.
Sunny Savita: 3.12.
Sunny Savita: And I said, for this particular experiment, you have to create with 3.11.
Debanjan Mani: Yes, I used… I tried 3.11, that… the errors was coming, that's why I used to… I tried 3.12, that's why.
Sunny Savita: Wait, do one thing, give me the access of your system.
Debanjan Mani: Did you get?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I got it, but…
Sunny Savita: Can you click on this .vnv folder?
Debanjan Mani: Mmm.
Sunny Savita: Just wait.
Sunny Savita: Node V, E, N, B.
Sunny Savita: Can you close this window?
Sunny Savita: This on-screen keyboard window.
Debanjan Mani: Well, I'm sure.
Debanjan Mani: Just a minute, I use that because my keyword is not working. Keyboard is not working.
Sunny Savita: You don't have keyboard?
Debanjan Mani: My keyboard, sometimes some keys don't work properly, that's why I use that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, over the command prompt, can you write, UB, Python list.
Debanjan Mani: I shouldn't be good.
Sunny Savita: Right here, UBPython list.
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, yeah, just a minute. Again, I have to open the… He is not…
Sunny Savita: Okay, just write that I'm coming, okay? Wait, give me one minute, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yes. Okay, so do you have Python 3.11? Can you check.
Debanjan Mani: One sec, once…
Sunny Savita: I think you have, right? 3.11.15. Just copy that, see Python 3.11.15.
Sunny Savita: Copy that name, CPython 3.11.15, Windows X, this… this name.
Sunny Savita: Copy that.
Sunny Savita: Now, right here.
Sunny Savita: Right over the terminal.
Sunny Savita: U, V, V, N, B, ENB.
Sunny Savita: V-E-N-B, E-N-B.
Sunny Savita: VENV ENV, space ENV.
Sunny Savita: iPhone, iPhone, Python.
Sunny Savita: And then, after a space, pass this name. Pass this name, okay?
Debanjan Mani: healing.
Sunny Savita: Copy and paste it, yeah. Now hit enter.
Sunny Savita: Why you are recording this session already means, you will get a recording now from our end, right?
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, so I just don't know something, so…
Sunny Savita: Now, here to enter.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, hit enter.
Debanjan Mani: I have behind it.
Sunny Savita: Now copy this path, env script activated.
Debanjan Mani: Shh.
Debanjan Mani: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: You now run uvpip install python or recurnd.txt.
Debanjan Mani: Beautiful.
Debanjan Mani: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it is installing, it will install, okay? You can use this one.
Debanjan Mani: Okay, alright, thank you so much.
Debanjan Mani: Yeah, that UV comment, I had forgotten those.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Debanjan Mani: Okay, I'm stopping sharing then.
Sunny Savita: Real Uconstruction.
Sunny Savita: Any more person having doubt, please go ahead, guys. Otherwise, I will close the session, okay?
Dwipal: Hi, Simon.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Dwipal.
Dwipal: So, I heard the question of, Venkat.
Dwipal: We want to generate the,
Dwipal: Jira tickets from the document service. So, similar kind of, work I had tried to do, long back, using GMI 2.5 address slash
Dwipal: I tried to pass all the document, and
Dwipal: Try to get the list of stories from that.
Dwipal: That time, I observed that it is not able to, generate
Dwipal: All the students, it was, missing some of the features and solutions.
Dwipal: So… My question is, why it was happening?
Dwipal: And I tried, approach, another approach to that.
Dwipal: what I was doing, I was passing the document, and just getting… I was getting the features.
Dwipal: Then for each feature, I was making another request to get the list of stories.
Dwipal: So, that approach I tried, is there any better approach to that?
Dwipal: And, white is 0.
Dwipal: missing some of the features and stories of the documents.
Sunny Savita: Can you… can you please, I missed some of the part, can you, repeat it?
Dwipal: Okay. So, JC, when you get documents, right?
Dwipal: A similar kind of work, I try to do, just my personal project, kind of, I try to do. So, after my document upload karata, and in the prompt only.
Dwipal: And Rohasin?
Dwipal: at once, tried to… I was trying to generate the features and storage.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Dwipal: Using Gemini.
Dwipal: So, main observe kiya ki, kuch-kuch documents y important features jo banning chai ye te ahoonahi bane.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Dwipal: Mr. Rata. Maybe, I don't know, open link compared with the.
Sunny Savita: wo aapke prompt per dependarta hai. Matlav aap passani bo sakte miss karata, kyu karata. A bhesi kune batap kya data use karate, ma'am kya prompte hai.
Charles Fon: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Agar yeh seam chih mein aapse pucho, ki doifal mehk application banar ahu, ma aapay meek chi genera. Aapi bologna bahi, apna prom check kru, aapkiap dere ho proud mein, kesaikka data ma aap hai.
Dwipal: Who definitely…
Sunny Savita: application debug naikarenge until we are not doing… debug the application, right? What trends we are giving, what type of data we have, our prompt is matching or not, which model we are using, what is the capability of the reasoning of that model, right? So, you will not be able to generate our desired output, got it?
Dwipal: Okay.
Dwipal: exactly prompt, Hamarab… prompt to improve.
Sunny Savita: No, prompt could be improved. You can write anything in the prompt, actually. And see, even I written a prompt which is having more than 500 lines.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And still, model is able to process that, right? So model… so prompt, you can write in so many ways. Prompt template is not one of the way.
Sunny Savita: You can write the configuration prompt, conditional prompt, or so many things, basically, right there, okay? So, try and test… try and test the prompt in a different scenario. If the prompt is not working, means, basically, you will have to modify something on the data side.
Sunny Savita: You have to get very refined, you have to be, like, provide a very refined data set.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Dwipal: Okay.
Sunny Savita: a very defined data set to your model to understand the context, actually. Got it?
Dwipal: appropriate.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Dwipal: And I was trying that way. Do you think… is it a good way, or not a bad way? Is there any other or better way? So, my character, documents, upload kerke, prompt me password.
Sunny Savita: and provide that information only, okay? You can do that also. Just remove… reduce the noise of that, okay? Reduce the noise of that.
Dwipal: Right. List of features, face karate.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Just send me the solution, I'll check, okay?
Dwipal: Okay, good.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Dwipal: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, sir.
Sunny Savita: Okay, any more person having doubt? Guys, otherwise I'll close the session.
Charles Fon: It shows.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Charles. Please go ahead.
Charles Fon: Yes, sir.
Charles Fon: Yeah, yesterday I was talking about my code that was not,
Charles Fon: keep on repeating. So, I struggle to study, study, study, and she's still giving me the same thing.
Charles Fon: I just want… I don't want to keep it, like, the more you're going from keeping, keep on there, I want to sort… sort it out.
Charles Fon: Can I share my screen?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can share.
Charles Fon: Can you see my screen?
Charles Fon: Yes, okay.
Charles Fon: Yeah.
Charles Fon: You're gonna see.
Charles Fon: When you run some… when you run… they could.
Charles Fon: It comes… we keep on repeating like this.
Charles Fon: Like I told you yesterday.
Sunny Savita: It is not a problem, sir, it's fine if it is coming like that, okay? Even you are getting the answer now. What is the issue with that?
Charles Fon: Yeah, then this one, see this one? This… the shape of embedding.
Sunny Savita: You are getting a shape, right?
Charles Fon: Yeah, but that doesn't.
Sunny Savita: See, even… see, if you are getting an answer, if something is repeating, if something is, like, coming repeatedly or frequently, maybe some issue with your, this, basically notebook or your workspace and all, just create a new folder somewhere else and check out with creating a new notebook, okay? Either you are getting a same thing or not over there.
Sunny Savita: Right? It's not an error, actually. Maybe some formatting, you know, something is being missed. This IPYNV file is being corrupted, okay? So in your system, you have a space in some other directory also, just create a new folder, just create a new IPYNV file there, just execute the code over there and check there. Got it?
Charles Fon: Yeah, got it.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, because this IVYNB file is nothing, it is just a HTML representation, actually, okay? It's just a HTML page. If you will look into the raw code now, you will find out the HTML code.
Sunny Savita: So maybe some formatting missed over there, something, like, gone wrong over there, actually. That's why it is coming like this. Just create a new IPYNV file and perform the practical over there. Got it?
Charles Fon: Because… okay, then, for the encoding and decoding lessons we talked today.
Charles Fon: You say the encoding?
Charles Fon: is sequence.
Charles Fon: And it decoding spiral.
Charles Fon: But when you're analyzing the encoding, you'll see talking about the parallels, so I don't know which
Charles Fon: I don't know, I was get… I get lost somewhere there. If you open your notes, I can show you.
Sunny Savita: No, that part you will get with respect to this transformer and coder and decoder. I still need to explain that, okay?
Charles Fon: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yep.
Charles Fon: Thank you. Bye-bye.
Sunny Savita: Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I think we can close the session. Prithvi, do you have any doubt? You raised the hand.
PRITHWI: Thank you very much, for explaining these intricate topics in a very easy manner.
PRITHWI: Sir, I've been following your classes from the very first day. Sir, possibly I don't have any problem. But, sir, I want to ask you one question, if I… if you allow me, sir.
Sunny Savita: new control.
PRITHWI: Sir, actually, sir, actually, I'm following all your classes, I'm practicing
PRITHWI: All the assignments that you gave in the last class.
PRITHWI: And I have also revisited all the EIN email basics.
PRITHWI: And, sir, basically, sir, I'm a PhD student, sir, I want to transition from academia to industry.
PRITHWI: Sir, currently I am 32.
PRITHWI: And I have submitted my thesis, and yet to get my degree.
PRITHWI: But I want to transition to industry, so how… maybe in this 3 or 4 months, how I can prepare myself so that I can apply in the IT jobs?
PRITHWI: I don't have any IT work.
Sunny Savita: See, you have a researcher background already, correct? Now, you wanted to come into the industry. So, for that, basically, I will suggest you.
Sunny Savita: do as much as project, do as much as hands-on. Once you will understand how the project is being created.
Sunny Savita: Okay? How the, like, the application needs to be created. You can mention that in your resume.
Sunny Savita: Okay, you can mention your previous research experience also, PhD, Academy, and all everything, and then you can start giving the interview. Got it?
PRITHWI: Okay, sir.
PRITHWI: Yeah. Then he said, should I upload all the projects in the GitHub? For example, you give one assignment in the very first class, to use this kind of scapper class to extract the comments, then.
Sunny Savita: That kind of assignment, you need to be due, but don't mention inside the resume. For resume, I will discuss some different other projects, okay? So, you can mention those projects, actually, in your language, in your, basically experience, in your way, okay? So, that part we'll learn in the upcoming session, got it?
PRITHWI: Thank you for the rest.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, sir. Bye.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I think I cleared all the doubts. If you have any doubt, you can write to me over my mail, or you can write in a committee chat. So fine, guys, thank you, bye-bye, take care, good night, I'll see you in the next class. Thank you, guys.